How they prostitute a poem

It is uniquely easy
For some to sell
Ideals because
Business of absent
Goods is essentially
A sacrosanct but mostly
A flimsy transaction.

Some learn, early on,
To prostitute their verse.
So, in all the waking hours
They scavenge for a simple simile
That matches requirements, fulfills needs.

They barter reality
And every romance
To a blurred triplicate
Carbon-copy World of Hard
Cash and Price Tags and Brand Names.

In this brothel
Of stilled hope and
Stagnated stories, poems
Are born virgin and endowed
With voluptuous figures of firm,
Full breasts and wide hips where men
Prefer to plant their pastime dreams,
Or conceive their seed,
Or merely spite themselves,
Or dabble at domination.

But, the poem, with this
Bogus existence becomes
An adept, untiring prostitute.

Taken
On a starry night,
The poem opens
dry and drab and dreary:
lacking love and life like
The paid-for parting
Of the thighs.

Aggression

Ours is a silence
that waits. Endlessly waits.

And then, unable to bear it
any further, it breaks into wails.

But not all suppressed reactions
end in our bemoaning the tragedy.

Sometimes,
the outward signals
of inward struggles takes colossal forms
And the revolution happens because our dreams explode.

Most of the time:

Aggression is the best kind of trouble-shooting.






Authorship
You say that father write a lot of books, but what he write I don't
understand.
He was reading to you all the evening, but could you really
make out what he meant?
What nice stores, mother, you can tell us! Why can't father
write like that, I wonder?
Did he never hear from his own mother stories of giants and
fairies and princesses?
Has he forgotten them all?
Often when he gets late for his bath you have to and call him
an hundred times.
You wait and keep his dishes warm for him, but he goes on
writing and forgets.
Father always plays at making books.
If ever I go to play in father's room, you come and call me,
What a naughty child!
If I make the slightest noise you say, Don't you see that
father's at his work?
What's the fun of always writing and writing?
When I take up father's pen or pencil and write upon his book
just as he does,-a,b,c,d,e,f,g,h,i,-why do you get cross with me
then, mother?
You never say a word when father writes.
When my father wastes such heaps of paper, mother, you don't
seem to mind at all.
But if I take only one sheet to take a boat with, you say,
Child, how troublesome you are!
What do you think of father's spoiling sheets and sheets of
paper with black marks all over both sides?
 Fireflies
My fancies are fireflies,  
Specks of living light
twinkling in the dark.

he voice of wayside pansies,
that do not attract the careless glance,
murmurs in these desultory lines.

In the drowsy dark caves of the mind
dreams build their nest with fragments
dropped from day's caravan.

Spring scatters the petals of flowers
that are not for the fruits of the future,
but for the moment's whim.

Joy freed from the bond of earth's slumber
rushes into numberless leaves,
and dances in the air for a day.

My words that are slight
my lightly dance upon time's waves
when my works havy with import have gone down.

Mind's underground moths
grow filmy wings
and take a farewell flight
in the sunset sky.

The butterfly counts not months but moments,
and has time enough.

My thoughts, like spark, ride on winged surprises,
carrying a single laughter.
The tree gazes in love at its own beautiful shadow
which yet it never can grasp.

Let my love, like sunlight, surround you
and yet give you illumined freedom.

Days are coloured vbubbles
that float upon the surface of fathomless night.

My offerings are too timid to claim your remembrance,
and therefore you may remember them.

Leave out my name from the gift
if it be a burden,
but keep my song.

April, like a child,
writes hieroglyphs on dust with flowers,
wipes them away and forgets.

Memory, the priestess,
kills the present
and offers its heart to the shrine of the dead past.

From the solemn gloom of the temple
children run out to sit in the dust,
God watches them play
and forgets the priest.

My mind starts up at some flash
on the flow of its thoughts
like a brook at a sudden liquid note of its own
that is never repeated.

In the mountain, stillness surges up
to explore its own height;
in the lake, movement stands still
to contemplate its own depth.

The departing night's one kiss
on the closed eyes of morning
glows in the star of dawn.

Maiden, thy beauty is like a fruit
which is yet to mature,
tense with an unyielding secret.

Sorrow that has lost its memory
is like the dumb dark hours
that have no bird songs
but only the cricket's chirp.

Bigotry tries to keep turth safe in its hand
with a grip that kills it.
Wishing to hearten a timid lamp
great night lights all her stars.

Though he holds in his arms the earth-bride,
the sky is ever immensely away.

God seeks comrades and claims love,
the Devil seeks slaves and claims obedience.

The soil in return for her service
keeps the tree tied to her,
the sky asks nothing and leaves it free.

Jewel-like immortal
does not boast of its length of years
but of the scintillating point of its moment.

The child ever dwells in the mystery of ageless time,
unobscured by the dust of history.

Alight laughter in the steps of creation
carries it swiftly across time.

One who was distant came near to me in the morning,
and still nearer when taken away by night.

White and pink oleanders meet
and make merry in different dialects.

When peace is active swepping its dirt, it is storm.

The lake lies low by the hill,
a tearful entreaty of love
at the foot of the inflexible.

There smiles the Divine Child
among his playthings of unmeaning clouds
and ephemeral lights and shadows.

The breeze whispers to the lotus,
What is thy secret?
It is myself, says the lotus,
Steal it and I disappear!

The freedom of the storm and the bondage of the stem
join hands in the dance of swaying branches.

The jasmine's lisping of love to the sun is her flowers.

The tyrant claims freedom to kill freedom
and yet to keep it for himself.

Gods, tired of their paradise, envy man.

Clouds are hills in vapour,
hills are clouds in stone, 
a phantasy in time's dream.

While God waits for His temple to be built of love,
men bring stones.

I touch God in my song
as the hill touches the far-away sea
with its waterfall.

Light finds her treasure of colours
through the antagonism of clouds.

My heart to-day smiles at its past night of tears
like a wet tree glistening in the sun 
after the rain is over.

I have thanked the trees that have made my life fruitflul,
but have failed to remember the grass
that has ever kept it green.

The one without second is emptiness,
the other one makes it true.

Life's errors cry for the merciful beauty
that can modulate their isolation
into a harmony with the whole.

They expect thanks for the banished nest
because their cage is shapely and secure.

In love I pay my endless debt to thee
for what thou art.

The pond sends up its lyrics from its dark in lilies,
and the sun says, they are good.

Your calumny against the great i

stily watch the light on the wall,
Sectretly hoping the elevator comes, that the woman will not get hurt...
but maybe slip and fall.
So the doors open and she makes it in time,
He looks her up and down and says 'Damn she's fine'.

The woman had realized he was an elevator hog,
So she told him she was a model..
had fortune and fame,
And he might have had a chance had he not played the game.

So all you angry people, I am watching you.
I get a great chuckle,
If you were me so would you.
Maybe if all the angry people would stop and observe,
Our world would be less of the terds!












The high officials from different countries held a meeting,
to discuss the matter about food short-coming.
They said, 'A hungry man is an angry man.'
which causes the poor men's heart...so saddened..
The poor men say poverty is not their fault.
Food prices are manipulated by the hoarding greedy boss,
and goverment's failure to have the law enforced,
and its incompetency to do the perfect job.
Yes, they are very mad and angry,
not because they are hungry but about goverment's bad policy.
Emission of CO2 from rich countries make the global warming,
with its effect....melting of Artic ice, severe drought in the coming,
with temperature slowly and steadily rises and burns,
to the crops it causes the great harm,
resulting in a poor harvest,
well short of what they expect.
Then they march on the streets to shout and protest,
and the policemen throw the tear gas to disperse.
The high official's family are well-fed,
while the hungry poor children barely survive on food scrap.
The powerful officials turn the arable land into golf course,
pocketing the profits for their own cause.
They don't care about the poor people whether they live or die,
so the hungry men getting angry is justified.

The hoarders and the black marketeers wine and dine the food of the best.
If they are put under the arrest,
or if their profit becomes less,
they would be angry and mad.

But there are millions of hungry men,
who would rather like to die,
than to loot or tell a lie,
let alone getting angry or mad,
as the Holy Bible said,
man cannot live only on bread,
but must live on His teaching until death,
so that he would go to a place,
in heaven, as his soul is saved.











Of Po Chu-i, Chinese Governor & Poet (772-846 CE) :
As one of his poems explains, he suffered from paralysis
at the end of his life, one leg becoming useless.

'A well-fed contentment...
is there no greater achievement in life? '


1

'Too late for you, Little Stinger, '
he carves it himself, again and again,
years now, upon the stone,

'A well-fed contentment...'
and all the rest, but in his
mind it is never done.

'Old Po, ' he thinks to himself,
writing another verse in his head,
his own epitaph upon the other side
of the jade-stone, 'now rides a wild
horse to the end of all roads.'

Weary with the business of state,
of commerce he now cares less
though once he was poor and his
firstborn son is dead as a result,

'Old wife will never let me forget.'

2

Her heavy face displaces among
clouds, swollen with hard tears
her sorrowful gaze calls for the
always hungry child who was lost
when they were poor, without work
and down on luck.

The frozen ground
reluctantly yields these many
years unmoved by tears slow to
name his little grave, too long unmarked.

It now wears a monument tall of finest jade.

3

'Of pleasing the inconsolable, '
he writes in his head upon
horseback, poems to be untangled,
brushed smooth, ink and quill of
miles stroked until there is some
rest, a cozy inn rare, more often
a tent pitched lending some simple
peace compared to the mansion in
the wealthy province, the ponds
full, the barns full, servants
many and busy, all the fruit from
miles traveled to keep a fragile
peace which needs constant mending.

He thinks of his gray wife.

4

'It is as it is and should be,
of love these conditions come
bringing many mouths the fuller
hearts to break for love and
life seek to be undone again
and again.

'Such is the life the Allotter
gives. Why complain when one
has the gift of a patient horse,
Wěn Ding, Steady, an obedient,
good companion?

'Why lament when eyes may
at beauty of all kinds still
rejoice; even of human woes
which break the heart much
music can be made, and without
false pity.'

'And without false pity, ' he sings,
'a coin given is heaven restored
until the next hunger pang, from
this friendship with strangers is
born, the best, of gentleness without
debt, untangling from mane to mind.'

'Untangling from mane to mind,
one takes real pleasure as they
come and, thanking the glad day,
banks them in the vaulted heart.'

5

Not given to self-pity, only
fond of nostalgic reminiscence,
he loves fabrics smooth, soft,
purchased in Yangshao where
he loves Spring's First Blossom
with whom he grew up, courting
her near the auspicious old well
of Silk Moths Aplenty.

He thinks of these and many things
upon his horse during the lonely
journey through difficult passages,

'Through difficult passages one
cannot avoid accumulating much dust, '
he composes out loud for the horse
to hear, 'perhaps our only wealth,
dear friend, of friendless miles.'

6

He rests awhile in the wide
orchard where bright plum flowers
rain, decides to unroll his pallet
to sleep beside the humming glade.

'Raiment, ' he writes in his sleepy head,
'of bees and leaves. An old man puts the
best plum in his sleeve to bring home
to his wife.'

'Why strive when nature is bounteous
and all ills can be made right with
wet sweetness? '








Gentle Man
Grows Angry
Nasty tan
Wearing Hugo Boss
Sanctuary of lack luster
Cheap candy floss
Banker smells a buster

Chart says whos gives a toss
Rip the bank
Thank too take a minus
Chart says we have loss
I sit in the sink of the tank
of the select think
I wait for the big boss too blink

Like fast I drive
Cross my mind frive
market and bomb dives
Come dine champange bubbles
Big slaughter bonus
Expensive life way supples
Banker says politician join us
Gentle man grows angry
Put gold in your sanctuary







Dare you, say up Wenger,
And behold Arsenal FaNs fume in anger,
For when one commentator said Arsene,
To some aggrieved ear, it sounded arson,
And to a disgruntled yoruba ear, asin,
I wondered, his atrocities that much.
Mufu burst-ed: Clichy by another club cliched,
A replacement, the prudent man takes a risk,
Gibbs definately will click.
Now Denilson gone,
One of the few who seldom fire the dusty canon gun,
And what as Mr Wenger done?
The power house, midfielder fabricator of gas, Fabregas,
For Arsenal, seem out of gas,
But Professor holds him still as the citadel of pass,
When many suspect his commitment long past.
Some have said on Mr Wengers hand is a super efficient glue,
And his full diskette need be replaced by a CD ROM,
Experts confessed: the free flowing pattern of play be like maggi, onga,
Will wet any football lover appetite to hunger,
But to shoot, Raphael declared, Nada,
And when they do, bagger
All our Strikers be Van der sars maga.
If there be any bullet left in the gunners canon gun, Bimpe added in anger,
It should be aimed at the wallet of Wenger.


The Silver Call


There is a godhead of unrealised things
To which Time's splendid gains are hoarded dross;
A cry seems near, a rustle of silver wings
Calling to heavenly joy by earthly loss.


All eye has seen and all the ear has heard
Is a pale illusion by some greater voice
And mightier vision; no sweet sound or word,
No passion of hues that make the heart rejoice


Can equal these diviner ecstasies.
A Mind beyond our mind has sole the ken
Of those yet unimagined harmonies,
The fate and privilege of unborn men.


As rain-thrashed mire the marvel of the rose,
Earth waits that distant marvel to disclose.
Krishna

           At last I find a meaning of soul's birth
           Into this universe terrible and sweet,
     I who have felt the hungry heart of earth
         Aspiring beyond heaven to Krishna's feet.


     I have seen the beauty of immortal eyes,
        And heard the passion of the Lover's flute,

     And known a deathless ecstasy's surprise
       And sorrow in my heart for ever mute.


    Nearer apd nearer now the music draws,
         Life shudders with a strange felicity;
    All Nature is a wide enamoured pause
        Hoping her lord to touch, to clasp, to be.


    For this one moment lived the ages past;
   The world now throbs fulfilled in me at last
The Inner Fields


There is a brighter ether than this blue
Pretence of an enveloping heavenly vault,
Royaler investiture than this massed assault
Of emerald rapture pearled with tears of dew.
Immortal spaces of cerulean hue
Are in our reach and fields without this fault
Of drab brown earth and streams that never halt
In their deep murmur which white flowers strew

Floating like stars upon a strip of sky.
This world behind is made of truer stuff
Than the manufactured tissue of earth's grace.
There we can walk and see the gods go by
And sip from Hebe's cup nectar enough
To make for us heavenly limbs and deathless face.
Liberation

I have thrown from me the whirling dance of mind
And stand now in the spirit's silence free,
Timeless and deathless beyond creature-kind,
The centre of my own eternity.

I have escaped and the small self is dead;
I am immortal, alone, ineffable;
I have gone out from the universe I made,
And have grown nameless and immeasurable.

My mind is hushed in a wide and endless light,
My heart a solitude of delight and peace,
My sense unsnared by touch and sound and sight,
My body a point in white infinities.

I am the one Being's sole immobile Bliss:
No one I am, I who am all that is.
At dusk, at dawn I gaze upon your beauty

by Darshan Singh

English version by Barry Lerner and Harbans Singh Bedi
Original Language Urdu

At dusk, at dawn I gaze upon your beauty --
A dazzling spectacle of rising moon and sun.

So far, the wayfarers have not discovered your footprints:
They stand staring at the stepstone of your door

Your glance of abundant grace did not satisfy;
We with the seeing eye know a glance from a glance.

Saqi, they've just arrived and taken their seats;
How is it that they've already gained intimacy?

Some you inspire with the madness of prostration:
They cannot tell their heads from your door.

Saqi, whoever comes by even a tinge of awakening
We see sitting in your assembly, oblivious to this world.

Men who are maddened by the thought of the goal
See not fellow travelers -- they are intent on the road.

Master, in what strange state your Darshan lives:
We always see his eyes moist with tears.
I Am All

by Jiddu Krishnamurti




I am the blue firmament and the black cloud,
I am the waterfall and the sound thereof,
I am the graven image and the stone by the wayside,
I am the rose and the falling petals thereof,
I am the flower of the field and the sacred lotus,
I am the sanctified waters and the still pool,
I am the tree that towereth among the mountains
And the blade of grass in the peaceful lane,
I am the tender spring leaf and the evergreen foliage.

I am the barbarian and the sage,
I am the impious and the pious,
I am the ungodly and the godly,
I am the harlot and the virgin,
I am the liberated and the man of time,
I am the the indestructible and the destructible,
I am the renunciation and the proud possessor.
I am all
few know me.

I am neither This nor That,
I am neither detached nor attached,
I am neither heaven nor hell -- few know me --
I am neither philosophies nor creeds,
I am neither the Guru nor the disciple.
O friend,
I contain all.

I am clear as the mountain stream,
Simple as the new spring leaf.

Happy are they
That meet with me.

I walked on a path through the jungle

by Jiddu Krishnamurti




I walked on a path through the jungle
Which an elephant had made,
And about me lay a tangle of wilderness.
The voice of desolation fills the distant plain.
And the city is noisy with the bells of a tall temple.
Beyond the jungle are the great mountains,
Calm and clear.

In the fear of Life
The temptation of sorrow is created.

Cut down the jungle -- not one mere tree,
For Truth is attained
By putting aside all that you have sown.

And now I walk with the elephant.
I have been a wanderer long from The Search

by Jiddu Krishnamurti




I have been a wanderer long
In this world of transient things.
I have known the passing pleasures thereof.
As the rainbow is beautiful
But soon vanishes into nothingness,
So have I known,
From the very foundation of the world,
The passing away of all things
Beautiful, joyous and pleasurable.

As the moon is full and serene,
In the day of harvest
So am I
In the day of my Liberation
Simple as the tender leaf am I
For in me are many winters and many springs.
As the dew drop is of the sea,
So am I born
In the ocean of my Liberation

As the mysterious river
Enters the open seas,
So have I entered
Into the world of Liberation
This is the end I have known.
Annette

Annette,
At the dresser.
Pale fingers over mirror-fields
Reaping
That wheat brown hair.
Beauty
Falling as chaff in old mirrors,
While calenders
In all
The cities turn….

The moon is encircled by moons

by Lalan

English version by Deben Bhattacharya
Original Language Bengali

The moon is encircled by moons.
How can I hold it
In my hands?
The unseizable moon,
Glowing in the brilliance
Of a million moons,
Rocks my head
In a lunar carnival....

Moon fruits adorn
The tree of the moon,
Flashing,
Luminously flashing.

I try to see
But my eyes cannot bear;
The rays of beauty
Dazzle them.

Songs of summer


I am happy, life is good.

 Heard at the end of a therapy class. . .
 The heavy-duty brainwashing and you
 Remember your crores stacked away. . .
 Your Harvard airs helps in large doses
 Soon, the colors peel away and there is nothing
 To do than wrestle with your yearnings.

I would like to make love.

 Wanna fuck? It is easier saying it this way
 For something that you paid for in cash
 And cheques and credit cards.
 Forget the lesser action, the lack of poetry
 What mattered was how you let go
 Of your hate and heat and hunger
 But never had the courage to talk
 To her of love or loneliness. . .

You are trespassing on my territory

 You guarded it with LoCs and walls
 And barbed wire fences where hatred
 Danced like high-voltage electricity. . .
 You killed creatures and cleared forests
 And wiped away the darker people
 And those of dreamy tongues with
 Your agenda of a war-a-week, the
 Worlds-to-win and vengeance-to-wreak. . .
 Your Mushroom clouds and wmds and
 Poverty drafts and armchair chivalry and
 A collective manhood of nuclear warheads
 That explode and penetrate. . .

She’s mine.

 To make her yours and yours alone,
 You pushed her deeper into harems
 Where she could see the sunlight
 Only from the lattice windows.
 Domesticated into drudgery she was just
 Another territory, worn out by wars. A slave
 Who maintained your numbers.

Let’s make love.

 ~all that you thought~
 What’s taking her so long to undress?
 Quick! Sooner!
 ~all that you said~
 I m gonna fuck till ya faint. . .

Oh how nice to have made love.

 ~breathless~ Iminahurry. Cyasoon.~panting~

Here are the words, again
I am happy. Life is good / I would love to make love.
You are trespassing on my territory/ She’s mine.
Let’s make love/ Oh how nice to have made love.

On sunny green fields these are the only
Six sentences the male of a grasshopper can ever say.

But what have we done with words?



Meeting the prophetess

Leave your books behind.

Since memory,
Like knowledge, is a traitor,
Erase every hoarding of your horrible past.

At last, when you enter her world
Of fraying edges and falling angels
Don’t barter words where touch will do and be the truth.
For once allow her silence to sear, strip your life-layers
Because she who knows the truth will not know the tale.



The flight of birds

a poem should be wordless
as the flight of birds.
Archibald Macleish, Ars Poetica.

birds don’t sing in their flight

for them flying is a muse
they compose mid-air
weave agnostic verse
sneering haughtily at our absurdity
as they float over our meaningless mosques and churches
and those patrolled international borders
and other disputed sites
where the guns go bang bang bang all the time
they swing over there losing their birdegos
ego is difficult to retain in mid-flight
wondering about and watching men plucking out
and quashing the lives of other men and women and
poor helpless children and they
shed a birdtear or two from there
a birdtear that is lost midway due to heat of some explosion
down below some crazy fanatical bomb detonating
killing instantly the people and the city and the forests
and even the pitiable babybirds who are yet to learn to fly

they contemplate of writing poems
about a bird’s egg charring
before even being boiled and scratch their beaks
unsure if this is a metaphor or simile or other poetic device

o the birds have lots and lots and lots to write about
o their writings will never be banned

they borrow freedom
to write poems in the sky
they come back and
pass it on to us
we take the song only
brutally
but at least we take the song

to take the poem
to unscramble the words from the song and to put it back again
as song so spontaneously that it remains the poem and the song
to remember forever this refrain whose melody haunts us
and to hum that refrain which preserves our sanity
perhaps we need to fly
a trifle aimlessly like birds

or because we are humans
six-sensed creatures with massive egos
and massive superegos and massive egos on the ego
and because of possessing gray matter
what doctors call medulla oblongata
we need to feel with our red hearts
than think with some unlocatable mind

we need to look deeper. . .
into ourselves, into eyes
we need to lose ourselves
then, and only then

the poems will come
silent
wordless
as the flight of birds



Blackboard poems

S          P          A          C          E
is a problem unlike your never-ending
paper or the maddening blankness of
your word processor where you can go on
and on in anguish or insanity or boredom
on one-hundred-and-seven degree Fahrenheit afternoons.
To write the next lines you need to take
the greengoldbrown duster to rub off these eight

Colour is another confusion you want
to wish away. At sixteen you wouldn’t write
OneSingleWord unless it was forty percent
gray letters on a plum background and your
monitor looked like a high class youknowwho.
The font then was Footlight MT Light, 13 pt.
Now, at twenty one, it is Verdana, eight point.
I have erased again

NOTHING SEDUCES LIKE YOUR OWN HANDWRITING.
THE WHITE CHALK DANCING ACROSS GLASS GREEN.
Creepers on W’s  R’s, hats on S, hearts on I’s  J’s.

I have erased again

I don’t grudge the colours too. Instead of two hundred
and fifty six fantasies there is the catholic bridal white.
Sometimes, there is yellow, blue, green, purple, red and
orange and the opportunity of giving them names

Flaky Fullmoon. Bleached  Faded Captain Haddock Suit.
Temple-tank Algae. Crushed Lilac Under Flashlight.
Sherbet Stain. Sawdust Chillidust Cream.

I have erased again

There is considerable exertion let me hazard a guess:
writing takes two hundred calories per hour, erasing
with the duster five hundred, and walking across must
be say, around eighty. Then, there is chalk-dust allergy
that compels me to sneeze. And the chemical after-effect
that spoils the moody brown skin of any glowing goddess.

And the unbearable sounds
of chalk squeak. . .
I have erased again.
The fifth time now.

But, a poet loves
writing blackboard poems.
So easy, to imagine, an audience
Yet, how much she dreads
Impermanence. . .



Returning home

And you see the two-crows-for-joy-pass that are sitting on
overhead cables and the evening moon,
a mere silvery slice against fluffy translucent sky.

And the remains of your school where you spent your twelve
longest years and lived through everything.

And the bus-stand you had to draw for your art-class in yellow
ochre or asphalt grey and the emptiness that now occupies the
place where a tiny café once stood.

And the tree where they fed you lunch before you learnt to walk
back home. And I thought of my parents.

Brilliant people talking of the intricacies of their life and the corruption of
morals and the bygone days and hunger in their childhood and their deaddear-
departed parents as if to teach you what to talk to your children.

And you are their child,
so you speak their lines.
Still returning home,

And there are rusty mammoth girders that outline the sky like
the derelicts of lost dreams and crossed hopes.

And girls so flimsy pretty yet unsafe in the little worlds of lip
gloss and love affairs that you could have smoked them into
oblivion.

And the dry decaying dead leaves crushed with varying noises
and carrying a spent smell that clings to your hair.

And the shy forest noises that violate your fixation over sight
and sound and smell and touch yes touch.

And I thought of my lover.

A primitive man who would invade
your aloneness on insomniac nights
and challenge your assumptions of
love and your sophistications and fill
your ears with the four letter words of
his ancient language that have begun
to sound to you like earth songs to
which your body awakens.

And you are his love,
so you listen to his lines.

On the way home, the small
lessons you learn of life. . .
Love, or the promise of love,
its lack of choice.
This large world.
And its littleness.


Cinquains

Morning Song

Wet pink
And dusty grey
The sky begins to blush.
Some sleepy careless charm welcomes
Daybreak.

Even Song

Azure
And pink gold hues
The smug sky at twilight
A final flush of fulfilment
Night falls.


Sun in the mouth

And the truth scorches and singes
the pink open flesh of your mouth
with its pungent yellow taste, so,
speaking the truth is not so easy
with just one tongue, anyway.

Seeing might have been closest
to truth and as Plotinus said
the eye would not be able to see
the sun if it was itself not sun
and so seeing was understanding.

The Egyptians called the eye
with the circle of the iris
with the pupil in the centre
as the sun in the mouth
and that was their truth.

Cyclops must have had little
to see in this vast world and
deprived of the whole truth
and that was his loss, his tragedy.

Even Argus with all his eyes
couldn’t escape in the end.
How much truth, how many eyes
of how many senses would it take
to tell the truth to the lord of the third-eye?

A king of a Tamil temple city
raged mad to know the truth
of the scent of a woman’s hair.
Since money bought truth
he made ready, a thousand gold coins.

And a poor poet still married to faith
prayed on to Shiva, the lord of struggling
survivors, lord of births and lives and
deaths, lord of poor poets who gave him
a poem to be sung at the king’s court.

A savant there picked a mistake like
peeling the scab of a healed wound
and said that the poem was wrong.
He said that any woman’s hair
did not have a natural scent.

The lord of dances and grey ash
and cremation grounds came down
to challenge this stubborn man who
extended his truth, even if the woman
was the consort of the lord.

He would not budge even if the lord
threatened to open his third eye,
the eye in the forehead which would
reduce him to bone-white ashes
as light as the wispiest clouds.
The court cowered in fright. . .

But in arrogance the savant said
a mistake is a mistake
even if it was the lord
of the forehead-eye.

O’ saint-bard and master of many wily words
What do you know of truth or love,
or the scent of a woman’s hair?
On the nights of naked sky and
a fragile quarter moon, my lord,
he of the deep blue throat,
he of the rivers in his hair,
he of the third-eye, comes to me.
Before he tears the blankness
of my womb, before he traces
the length of my spine, the curve
of my thighs, before he strokes
my cheeks, he buries his head
in the thousand and one nights
of my long tresses and he says
it smells like the wind-lost voices
of his childhood summers.



The Gods wake up

Another worst things with the Gods is that
They sleep most of the time
                          they don’t even dream.
If you happen to go near heaven:
It is a very noisy boring place.
And all that you get to hear there are
Thirty three million synchronized godly snores.
                          The Goddesses snore too.

The Gods sleep right through the prayers
Performed by the Brahmins
                          maybe they find it boring.
Births, Marriages, innumerable yagnas,
Brahmins take the center-stage, all the
Gods skip. Also, Om is now obsolete
a kind of recurring mosquito buzz.
                          Besides, Om is ©opyrighted.

At times, the sleeping celestials do stir.
Gods always get excited over funerals
                          they are kind of necrophilic.
The loud drums lead the dead to eternal sleep,
Ancient noises herald the escaping life.
This deeper music shakes the skies.
That’s when the Gods wake up.
                          Just to receive the dead.


When the God drank milk


This was the second time
He spanned the world
So quickly. . . In telecast
miracles that occurred from
Michigan to Manila to Madras
Whether He was in plastic, ceramic,
Fire-burnt clay or stiff black stone
The Elephant-Headed, the Pot-Bellied,
The Remover of Obstacles, Ganesha,
The God had his fill as he sucked
The spoonfuls of creamy milk. . .

I am not willing to listen to
Capillary Action Rationalism
Or any scientific explorations. . .

Instead I am hunting for some
Silly girl’s bizarre secret, to know if
The Son of Shiva had let himself
To be breastfed, to be suckled. . .
And if she, having tasted success
At His having tasted her,
Moved on to younger,
Charming Gods,
With their mouths
Full of white teeth.



For sale

My school bud, he work hard.
He slog. He make money.
He grow dam rich.

He go to da temple, where
his po’ ol’ folks ain’t allowed.
He buy incense for two bucks
flowers for five, kinda shaggy
coconut for ten bucks.
He also buy a standing place
at da front and da special prayer
in his name all at twenty more.

Priest with ash and holy smoke
come to him, give extra blesses for
a cool crisp fifty my bud gives.

He stand there and stare,
stare hard at the

If he wanted to eat, he needed a job,
to pay for the food on his tummy.
So he asked many snobs,
but each time he left without money.

He tried to be an actor,
but found out he couldn't sing or cry.
He had the smarts to be a politician,
but found out he couldn't lie.

None one wanted his application.
No one gave him a chance.
Some were scared because he was from another nation.
Other because he didn’t own pants.

He only found one job, 
that paid food and shelter instead of wages.
All he was asked to do,
was to sit inside steel cages,
and dream of the outside sun.



Little Birdy

I saw a little bird today 
sitting perched next to my bed
she was singing such a pretty song
I was thinking in my head
so I sat and listened for a while
calm as can be and quite still
till she flew away and perched 
up on my sill

She continued singing a different song
louder than before
curiously I watched her 
and started to get bored
I thought to myself I am tired still
and want to go to bed
so I took my pillow sleepily 
and covered up my head

I waited a while and removed the pillow till
I saw she was still perched on my window sill
I started to turn red
I got up to slam the window closed
and turned to go to bed 
When I saw what I had done 
the little bird was dead

Where there was triumph and happiness 
guilt was replaced instead 
for in my eagerness to go to sleep 
I crushed her little head



A Dieter's Despair

Oh my soul, be thou quiet
This is not 'another diet'
Just a program of exchange
Though some things do seem strange

Raw vegetables and 'brock-o-lee'
Does not sound too good to me
Lots of tofu and bean sprouts
While my empty stomach shouts

The meaning here is quite plain;
This program is designed for pain
Someone with anorexia planned
A program that tastes like sand

My hands are sweating, my soul is dreading
I must keep this thing from spreading
My only hope, the paper shredder
It finally made this diet better



The Greatest Accessory Of Them All

People care to much.
How their hair looks
or their clothes.
They don't care about what matters
The soul

The soul is what truly matters
that thing that is deep inside.
The soul is always fashionable 
no matter what the season is.

The soul is something that changes color a million times
from when you are born to when you die.
My soul is yellow today 
because I'm happy inside.

On Thursday my soul was green
for I envied another girl.

The soul is by far the best accessory you can have.
And that's what they should write in the magazines.



What A Life!

I once applied for a life online
Sadly however, I was declined
They told me I was not eligible
So I wrote them a letter to complain
They sent it back, it was not legible
So on with my search for a life
This has given me a bit of strife
I don't have enough money or any good looks
I can't paint a picture or write a book
I can barley chew gum and walk at the same time
I can even be quiet enough to become a mime
I once asked a professor where to find one
He directed me straight to an insane Asylum
I can't play the drums or even a fife
I guess I'll have to re-apply, What a Life!



A Boy Named Sue

Well, my daddy left home when I was three,
and he didn't leave much to Ma and me,
just this old guitar and a bottle of booze.
Now I don't blame him because he run and hid,
but the meanest thing that he ever did was
before he left he went and named me Sue.

Well, he must have thought it was quite a joke,
and it got lots of laughs from a lot of folks,
it seems I had to fight my whole life through.
Some gal would giggle and I'd get red
and some guy would laugh and I'd bust his head,
I tell you, life ain't easy for a boy named Sue.

Well, I grew up quick and I grew up mean.
My fist got hard and my wits got keen.
Roamed from town to town to hide my shame,
but I made me a vow to the moon and the stars,
I'd search the honky tonks and bars and kill
that man that gave me that awful name.

But it was Gatlinburg in mid July and I had
just hit town and my throat was dry.
I'd thought i'd stop and have myself a brew.
At an old saloon in a street of mud
and at a table dealing stud sat the dirty,
mangy dog that named me Sue.

Well, I knew that snake was my own sweet dad
from a worn-out picture that my mother had
and I knew the scar on his cheek and his evil eye.
He was big and bent and gray and old
and I looked at him and my blood ran cold,
and I said, My name is Sue. How do you do?
Now you're gonna die. Yeah, that's what I told him.

Well, I hit him right between the eyes and he went down
but to my surprise he came up with a knife
and cut off a piece of my ear. But I busted a chair
right across his teeth. And we crashed through
the wall and into the street kicking and a-gouging
in the mud and the blood and the beer.

I tell you I've fought tougher men but I really can't remember when.
He kicked like a mule and bit like a crocodile.
I heard him laughin' and then I heard him cussin',
he went for his gun and I pulled mine first.
He stood there looking at me and I saw him smile.

And he said, Son, this world is rough and if
a man's gonna make it, he's gotta be tough
and I knew I wouldn't be there to help you along.
So I gave you that name and I said 'Goodbye'.
I knew you'd have to get tough or die. And it's
that name that helped to make you strong.

Yeah, he said, Now you have just fought one
helluva fight, and I know you hate me and you've
got the right to kill me now and I wouldn't blame you
if you do. But you ought to thank me
before I die for the gravel in your guts and the spit
in your eye because I'm the guy that named you Sue.
Yeah, what could I do? What could I do?

I got all choked up and I threw down my gun,
called him pa and he called me a son,
and I came away with a different point of view
and I think about him now and then.
Every time I tried, every time I win and if I
ever have a son I think I am gonna name him
Bill or George - anything but Sue.



Messy Room

Whosever room this is should be ashamed!
His underwear is hanging on the lamp.
His raincoat is there in the overstuffed chair,
And the chair is becoming quite mucky and damp.
His workbook is wedged in the window,
His sweater's been thrown on the floor.
His scarf and one ski are beneath the TV,
And his pants have been carelessly hung on the door.
His books are all jammed in the closet,
His vest has been left in the hall.
A lizard named Ed is asleep in his bed,
And his smelly old sock has been stuck to the wall.
Whosever room this is should be ashamed!
Donald or Robert or Willie or--
Huh? You say it's mine? Oh, dear,
I knew it looked familiar!



The Tyger

Tyger! Tyger! burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?

In what distant deeps or skies
Burnt the fire of thine eyes?
On what wings dare he aspire?
What the hand dare seize the fire?

And what shoulder, and what art,
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand? and what dread feet?

What the hammer? what the chain?
In what furnace was thy brain?
What the anvil? what dread grasp
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?

When the stars threw down their spears,
And watered heaven with their tears,
Did he smile his work to see?
Did he who made the Lamb make thee?

Tyger! Tyger! burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye,
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?




'Twas the Night Before Christmas 

'Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds;
While visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads;
And mamma in her 'kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter's nap,
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters and threw up the sash.
The moon on the breast of the new-fallen snow,
Gave a lustre of midday to objects below,
When what to my wondering eyes did appear,
But a miniature sleigh and eight tiny rein-deer,
With a little old driver so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment he must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name:
Now, Dasher! now, Dancer! now Prancer and Vixen!
On, Comet! on, Cupid! on, Donder and Blixen!
To the top of the porch! to the top of the wall!
Now dash away! dash away! dash away all!
As leaves that before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky;
So up to the housetop the coursers they flew
With the sleigh full of toys, and St. Nicholas too
And then, in a twinkling, I heard on the roof
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head, and was turning around,
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound.
He was dressed all in fur, from his head to his foot,
And his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot;
A bundle of toys he had flung on his back,
And he looked like a pedler just opening his pack.
His eyeshow they twinkled! his dimples, how merry!
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry!
His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow,
And the beard on his chin was as white as the snow;
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
And the smoke, it encircled his head like a wreath;
He had a broad face and a little round belly
That shook when he laughed, like a bowl full of jelly.
He was chubby and plump, a right jolly old elf,
And I laughed when I saw him, in spite of myself;
A wink of his eye and a twist of his head
Soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread;
He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And filled all the stockings; then turned with a jerk,
And laying his finger aside of his nose,
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose;
He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.
But I heard him exclaim, ere he drove out of sight
Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good night!


Everyone grumbled. The sky was grey.
We had nothing to do and nothing to say.
We were nearing the end of a dismal day,
And then there seemed to be nothing beyond,
Then
Daddy fell into the pond!

And everyone's face grew merry and bright,
And Timothy danced for sheer delight.
Give me the camera, quick, oh quick!
He's crawling out of the duckweed! Click!

Then the gardener suddenly slapped his knee,
And doubled up, shaking silently,
And the ducks all quacked as if they were daft,
And it sounded as if the old drake laughed.
Oh, there wasn't a thing that didn't respond
When
Daddy Fell into the pond!

Best Of Brands

Get that nit comb through those strands,
This lice lotion best of brands,
Nought point nought between the prongs,
Not short hair, but two foot long.

Look they’re dying, I think we’re winning,
Eyes all bloodshot, red and stinging.
Don’t be silly, don’t start to wine,
Mummy’s got to be cruel to be kind.

Crisis over! What do you think?
Still got to get rid of that terrible stink.
Back to school, back to civilization.
Ready to pick up another infestation!



Fecal Farm

My horse is there in front of me
Clip-cloppin' down the road.
He stops and flips his tail straight up
And drops another load.

My cows dump in the meadow,
My chickens foul their coop,
And flies are buzzin' 'round and 'round
Eatin' all that poop.

The sheep are out there bleatin'...
I gotta' get a grip!
The stupid things are standin'
Knee-deep in their dip!

I swear on this here farm
There's every barnyard species,
And each and every one of them
Is makin' tons of feces.

I'm tired of smellin' livestock.
I'd like to take a nap.
But I can't sleep 'cause I dream of
Hogs wallowin' in their crap.

Now my wife is in the kitchen
Cookin' soup du jour,
But nothin' smells real good to me;
I'm surrounded by manure.



My Five Kitty Cats
+A268
Buster, Sparkle, Newbie, Speedy
and then there’s Pixie our smallest kitty,
One, two, three and four and five,
they’re so frisky, so alive.

Sparkle is my number one,
14 years old and so much fun.
Purrs and snuggles on my shoulder,
she‘s getting slow and somewhat older.
She meows for water from the sink,
I turn it on, for her to drink.

Speedy is my number two,
proud and handsome, I tell you!
He prances like a little pony,
and you know what? That’s no baloney.
He guards the others from above,
and sometimes gives a little shove.

Newbie is my number three,
chubby, plump as one can be.
Always cleaning, always licking, 
he tries to run but his paws keep sticking.
He keeps on searching for a hand,
to scratch under his collar band.

Buster is my number four,
always eating, more and more.
Loves to snack on lots of munchies,
Tender Vittles and some crunchies.
Begging, pleading, day and nights.
Give me crunchies, or I’ll bite!



Green

Green is so important
Because we see it all around
It’s up very high on the trees
And on the grass that is on the ground

Green is the colour of
The plants that grow in the south
It’s also the colour of a Brussels sprout
That I refuse to put in my mouth

Green is on the traffic light
When the cars can go
All the green disappears
When it starts to snow

The most important thing about the colour green
Is because of my mother
NO she is not green
It’s her favourite colour



Writing Utensil

I marvel my pencil.
My special, long, wooden utensil.
I just can't keep my hands from it.
I got him from a friend, and we've been inseparable since.
I admit, I forgot to give him back.
However regrets, I do lack.
He scribbles my words, when I can't find what to say.
He makes my thoughts audible, and in a neat and clear way.
If I make any mistakes, he's always got my back.
On the end of his long orange body, there's a pink square that's always keeping me on track.
Though he's marked with the number 2, He'll always be number 1 in my book.
I will never over-accessorize him or cause any damage to his look.
Pens, markers, crayons: they just don't cut it for me.
My perfectly sharpened buddy, is all that I need!



The Ballad Of The Turkey

As I walked along the road one day
Kicking up stones along the way,
I saw a bird of unusual size
Who had a large beak and small, beady eyes.

He strutted about and ruffled his wings
Then he did the most ominous thing.
He let out a screech and puffed out his chest
I wanted to run from this evil pest.

As this bird's mighty exterior did appear
The inside of my chest was filled with fear.
He put one talon forward, the other one next
This troublesome bird was making me vexed.

I then did something that was a great chance.
I kicked a stone at him to stop his advance.
He then chased the stone, oh joy of great joys!
I felt myself one of the luckiest boys!

Around the corner I ran, straight to my home,
Leaving that bird confused and alone.
Don't befriend a turkey for that's what he was
Or he will attack you simply because.



Lady Gagas Dress

I was at home watching TV
flicking the channels what could I see
lady gaga got an award and as she got out of her seat
I was amazed she was wearing a dress made of meat
I thought if its good for gaga its good for me
I was down the butchers by half past three
stood at the counter clothes round my feet
I said have you something to fit me that's stylish and neat
he held up a chipolata cheeky sod
hey this is what I was gifted from god
well I got pork chops for pants and rump for a hat
turkey trousers and a sausage cravat
when he was finished I minced down the street
walking on kidneys made for my feet
but soon in the heat I started to foam
then I walked passed the stray dog home
well there was chaos I tried to run
as German Sheppard pulled the steak from my bum
a sausage dog grabbed my sausage a basset my chops
it was such chaos I emptied the shops
so my friends if a meat dress your tempted to make
take it from me its a big big mis- steak.



Writing Block

I can not write a poem; my brain feels fried.
It can do no more.
It is as though all my creativity has been trapped, isolated in a room without a door.

I fell no inspiration, no ideas are coming to mind.
And as I hold this pen in my hands I can form no words on the lines. 

When I think I'm finally on to something it quickly leaves my brain.
Leaving me frustrated and thinking this is all in vain. 

So I'm sorry if you wanted to hear a poem that surprised or shocked
but I just can't give you one, for I have WRITER'S BLOCK!



The Horse Ride

Taking a romantic ride today,
We sat upon the wagon.
Suddenly the horse lifted his tail
And we heard a roaring dragon!

The deafening sound hurt my ears
And the smell burned the hairs in my nose.
My girlfriend sat and glared at me.
Somehow my fault I suppose.

It was my idea to take the ride,
But how was I to know?
It really wasn’t in my plans;
Didn’t know the horse would blow.

The noise and the smell were bad enough,
As the wind blew quickly by.
But I think the very worst of it,
Was the brown stuff in my eye.

My girlfriend’s face turned angry red.
So I figured I wouldn’t dare,
Advise her of the smelly pieces
Of horse stuff in her hair.

The horse finally stopped; my girl ran away,
Stubbornly lifting her chin.
I think that horse was enjoying himself,
Cause I’m sure I saw him grin. 

A lesson learned for me today.
Although I must confess,
I laughed so hard I nearly cried
As I wiped away the mess.



The Day I Remember

I opened my eyes 
I looked to the sky
the birds were singing and whistling by
my heart got thirst to fly

I stretched my hands
and put on my band
I got out of the bed
and forced myself to go ahead

I walked out of my room
and saw a hand with a broom
when I looked up
I asked my mother WHAT'S UP!

my mother was in anger
in the other hand she took a hanger
my mother was like in battle
and played with me like a shuttle

It was the month of NOVEMBER
which I always REMEMBER.:



A Night With My Lady

Her body glistens in the light
I urge to play with her all night
I pick her up and hold her steady
Take a deep breath, we both are ready.

I run one hand up her long neck
Just touching her makes me euphoric
Across her body, my right hand goes
I've been practicing, believe me, it shows.

Her body glistens in the light
I urge to play with her all night
I pick her up and hold her steady
Take a deep breath, we both are ready.

Another deep breath, the tension mounts
Have to stay focused, every moment counts
I am ready lets get movin'
Here it goes, we both start groovin'.

Her body glistens in the light
I urge to play with her all night
I pick her up and hold her steady
Take a deep breath, we both are ready.

I start out slow to get in the swing
As I do she starts to sing
The sounds and feelings grow more immense
The movements, become more intense.

Her body glistens in the light
I urge to play with her all night
I pick her up and hold her steady
Take a deep breath, we both are ready.

She screams and screams, while I am gropin'
My heart stops as I see the door open
My mom walks i

Evolution revised

I passed into a lucent still abode
And saw as in a mirror crystalline
An ancient Force ascending serpentine
The unhasting spirals of the aeonic road.

Earth was a cradle for the arriving god
And man but a half-dark half-luminous sign
Of the transition of the veiled Divine
From Matter's sleep and the tormented load

Of ignorant life and death to the Spirit's light.
Mind liberated swam Light's ocean vast,
And life escaped from its grey tortured line;

I saw Matter illumining its parent Night.
The soul could feel into infinity cast
Timeless God-bliss the heart incarnadine.
God

Thou who pervadest all the worlds below,
Yet sitst above,
Master of all who work and rule and know,
Servant of Love!

Thou who disdainest not the worm to be 
Nor even the clod,
Therefore we know by that humility
That thou art God.
Friend 

Art thou abroad on this stormy night 
on thy journey of love, my friend? 
The sky groans like one in despair. 

I have no sleep tonight. 
Ever and again I open my door and look out on 
the darkness, my friend! 

I can see nothing before me. 
I wonder where lies thy path! 

By what dim shore of the ink-black river, 
by what far edge of the frowning forest, 
through what mazy depth of gloom art thou threading 
thy course to come to me, my friend?
The Astronomer 

I only said, When in the evening the round full moon gets
entangled among the beaches of that Dadam tree, couldn't somebody
catch it?
But dada laughed at me and said, Baby, you are the silliest
child I have ever known. The moon is ever so far from us, how could
anybody catch it?
I said, Dada, how foolish you are! When mother looks out of
her window and smiles down at us playing, would you call her far
away?
Still dada said, You are a stupid child! But, baby where
could you find a net big enough to catch the moon with?
I said, Surely you could catch it with your hands.
But dada laughed and said, You are the silliest child I have
known. If it came nearer, you would see how big the moon is.
I said, Dada, what nonsense they teach at your school! When
mother bends her face down to kiss us, does her face look very
big?
But still dada says, You are a stupid child.


The Gardener XIV: I Was Walking by the Road 

I was walking by the road, I do not
know why, when the noonday was past
and bamboo branches rustled in the
wind.
The prone shadows with their out-
stretched arms clung to the feet of
the hurrying light.
The koels were weary of their
songs.
I was walking by the road, I do not 
know why.
The hut by the side of the water is
shaded by an overhanging tree.
Some on was busy with her work,
and her bangles made music in the
corner.
I stood before this hut, I know not
why.
The narrow winding road crosses
many a mustard field, and many a
mango forest.
It passes by the temple of the
village and the market at the river
landing-place.
I stopped by this hut, I do not know
why.
Years ago it was a day of breezy
March when the murmur of the spring
was languorous, and mango blossoms
were dropping on the dust.
The rippling water leapt and licked
the brass vessel that stood on the 
landing-step.
I think of that day of breezy March,
I do not know why.
Shadows are deepening and cattle 
returning to their folds.
The light is grey upon the lonely
meadows, and the villagers are waiting
for the ferry at the bank.
I slowly return upon my steps, I
do not know why.
Paper Boats

Day by day I float my paper boats one by one down the running
stream.
    In big black letters I write my name on them and the name of
the village where I live.
    I hope that someone in some strange land will find them and
know who I am.
    I load my little boats with shiuli flower from our garden, and
hope that these blooms of the dawn will be carried safely to land
in the night.
    I launch my paper boats and look up into the sky and see the
little clouds setting thee white bulging sails.
    I know not what playmate of mine in the sky sends them down
the air to race with my boats!
    When night comes I bury my face in my arms and dream that my
paper boats float on and on under the midnight stars.
    The fairies of sleep are sailing in them, and the lading ins
their baskets full of dreams.

The Royal Tombs Of Golconda

I MUSE among these silent fanes 
Whose spacious darkness guards your dust; 
Around me sleep the hoary plains 
That hold your ancient wars in trust. 

I pause, my dreaming spirit hears, 
Across the wind's unquiet tides, 
The glimmering music of your spears, 
The laughter of your royal brides. 

In vain, O Kings, doth time aspire 
To make your names oblivion's sport, 
While yonder hill wears like a tier 
The ruined grandeur of your fort. 

Though centuries falter and decline, 
Your proven strongholds shall remain 
Embodied memories of your line, 
Incarnate legends of your reign. 

O Queens, in vain old Fate decreed 
Your flower-like bodies to the tomb; 
Death is in truth the vital seed 
Of your imperishable bloom 

Each new-born year the bulbuls sing 
Their songs of your renascent loves; 
Your beauty wakens with the spring 
To kindle these pomegranate groves. 

Surprise! Surprise!

I dreamt death came the other night
And heaven's gate swung wide;
With kindly grace an angel came
To usher me inside.

Yet there to my astonishment
Stood folks I'd known on earth,
Some I had judged as quite unfit
Or of but little worth.

Indignant words rose to my lips
But never were set free;
For every face showed stunned surprise
NO ONE expected me! 

This morning’s surprise

This morning’s surprise is how much I’ll miss rail travel.
The green fields looming up and falling behind,
the milky tea wobbling in a plastic cup,
the engine’s steady vibration.

This afternoon’s surprise is how many shades of red there are,
each one sitting in a room of its own, dense in meditation.
Each one a field of conflict, a medium of conciliation.

This evening’s surprise is not that the novel ends
in a desultory return to the working week -
loose ends trimmed and tucked out of sight -
but the ferocity of my recoil
at the author’s glib contrivance.

Midnight’s surprise is Lorca’s moon floating over Hackney
full-faced, round-eyed and speaking Spanish.

Surprise Surprise Surprise

My Honey's a Gem and he pampers me
and promised his love eternally.
Valentine's Day
was coming our way--
What beautiful gift would I see?

The day broke clear that early morn.
I expected a package with bow adorned.
But, Woe is me!
No gift did I see!~
I was feeling so sad and forlorn!

My Honey had a Smirk on his face
as he took me into his embrace.
He said, Close your eyes--
There's a big surprise!
I balled up my fist, just in case!

Blindly, I was led to the lawn
while I kept asking, What's going on?
He said, Wait and See--
I'm sure you'll agree--
All your worries will soon, be gone!

Alas, I became so excited
and my inner-fires ignited!
I felt so elated 
and anticipated
that I would be so delighted.

Slowly, I opened my eyes
and much to my surprise--
What did I see
in front of me ??
A Clothesline with all it implies!

Now, the laughter filled the air!
I didn't show signs of despair.
I took control
and embraced the pole--
He'll soon, have Starch in his Underwear!











Surprise Surprise Pretty Surprise

Oh boy, a brand new slate
You're all in for a HUGE surprise, just wait
You thought I had money before?
Now I'll be sweating money from my pores
This is just in time
Seriously I'm on cloud nine!


surprise, surprise surprise

never know whats in store for me for today,
doctors or patients,
ear pain, back pain or stuffed throat?

Surprise, Surprise!!

When you started talking to me again yesterday,
It took me by complete surprise.
I didn't know what to say really, I was in total shock.
I still am even after reading the whole conversation again. 

You seem to have had a change of heart, but I'm not sure why.
I'm glad that you did though, because I missed talking to you.
Maybe you realized that I had no part of it,
That it was all just a misunderstanding.

I still can't believe that you wanted to see me before you left,
After telling me not to talk to you any more.
Then to see the words You can call me some if you want.,
Has just really blew my mind!

I'm still not sure what to think of it all,
I guess you can say that I am kind of confused.
All of a sudden here you are saying you want to chill with me,
After telling me that you had changed your mind about anything else.

You acted just as interested as you did before,
So I can't help but ask, What's up?
Have you changed your mind, had a change of heart?
I sure hope you have, I had high hopes of it being more.

So I don't know where this will lead,
I have to wait a while to see because you have already left,
But I guess only time will tell!
It is really up to you though, my friend.


Surprise, Surprise

I called you once and you didn't respond
even though you specifically said to call you sometime.
Okay, that's alright, maybe you were busy
or didn't hear it.  Either way, maybe I should try again later.
.
.
Again, nothing.  Alright, I'll leave a message,
Even though I hate having to talk to a machine.
I'll call sometime tomorrow.

Once again nothing, maybe you're ignoring me,
Maybe I was wrong to hope
that you and me...
Forget it.


Okay one more time, yes you answered!
You'll be coming down later?
Awesome, great!  I'll be waiting.
And waiting.  And waiting.
I'll go watch TV.

What? you were here?  When?  You just left, no NO!
Okay, I'll try again.  No answer...
The next day, no answer...
One more time, nothing... Maybe she doesn't like me
after all.  Curse that god damned hope.  It got me again.

Surprise, Surprise

One moment can tell a story for years, 
Passed down with twists and turns... 
But no matter how many distortions are made, 
it is the original that is truly yours. 

'Twas the first day of school, 
such an interesting day, 
I walked the halls nervously
A lack of words to say. 

Turning a corner, 
I look up and around:
A teacher asks a boy for his name, 
I myself shocked by the sound:

The name has been spoken 
and time seems to stop; 
I look up at the boy in confusion
and feel my jaw drop. 

No way! Is it really him?
You? He? That guy?
The one I thought lost
now returned, how? why? 

Was he not gone for such a period
that I'd thought his return unseen:
Now this even is so abrupt! 
It happened so quickly...

surprise surprise.

We're best friends
You  I
but i love you
and your brown eyes

Just a boy and a girl
never torn apart
afraid to date
afraid to start

Never felt like this
Never opened up my heart
till just lately
now i know wasn't smart

you told me before
we'll be together soon
but today you changed your mind
now everything seems ruined

I don't know what to say
My face a blank stare
Tears flowing out my eyes 
Life really isn't fair

You say you can't lose me
And you didn't want to hurt me
but there was no way around it
now i ask you to let me be

I need time to let you go
I need space so i can think
I'll never open up my heart again
For it to only sink

Your still my best friend
I'll always wish we were more
but i respect your wish
Tho my feelings were tore.


Apparently with no surprise,
To any happy flower,
The frost beheads it at its play,
In accidental power.
The blond assassin passes on.
The sun proceeds unmoved,
To measure off another day,
For an approving God.

My heart went fluttering with fear
Lest you should go, and leave me here
To beat my breast and rock my head
And stretch me sleepless on my bed.
Ah, clear they see and true they say
That one shall weep, and one shall stray
For such is Love's unvarying law....
I never thought, I never saw
That I should be the first to go;
How pleasant that it happened so!

As there I left the road in May,
And took my way along a ground,
I found a glade with girls at play,
By leafy boughs close-hemmed around,
And there, with stores of harmless joys,
They plied their tongues, in merry noise:
Though little did they seem to fear
So queer a stranger might be near;
Teeh-hee! Look here! Hah! ha! Look there!
And oh! so playsome, oh! so fair.

And one would dance as one would spring,
Or bob or bow with leering smiles,
And one would swing, or sit and sing,
Or sew a stitch or two at whiles,
And one skipped on with downcast face,
All heedless, to my very place,
And there, in fright, with one foot out,
Made one dead step and turned about.
Heeh, hee, oh! oh! ooh! oo!—Look there!
And oh! so playsome, oh! so fair.

Away they scampered all, full speed,
By boughs that swung along their track,
As rabbits out of wood at feed,
At sight of men all scamper back.
And one pulled on behind her heel,
A thread of cotton, off her reel,
And oh! to follow that white clue,
I felt I fain could scamper too.
Teeh, hee, run here. Eeh! ee! Look there!
And oh! so playsome, oh! so fair.

I lift the toliet seat
as if it were the nest of a bird
and I see cat tracks
all around the edge of the bowl.

There is element of surprise
Even it is in sudden demise
Why does the sun always rise?
It can stay at home otherwise

So many things do happen or take place
They may prove disastrous even if you are not in race
You will have to deal it as fresh case
Not to loose the hope in any case

Is it not wonderful to be in this world?
All memories to be preserved and kept in fold
Why to worry about changing seasons?
It is varying from person to, person'

World may not end with our thinking
Thoughts may not stop with your sinking
You may drawn in sea or jump from sky
It will never end the question why

Try to be reasonable with simple fact
There is no use to offer resistance or to react
It may be your fate and must be accepted
Lines must be drawn choice must be opted

Future destiny makes you strong or weak
You should face the challenge and guidance to seek
You must stand alone in the lonely island
Must make it hospitable with many more friends

It may not bally your expectations
You may emerge powerful without any citation
It is your destiny and you must give shape
You should remain vigilant and never be trapped

Everything has its own time and future
It may rise and end with specific tenure
What are we thinking about future trend?
Try to adjust and make some mends

Have you ever ventured in hot sun?
Have you ever tried for shelter and run?
If not, then leave it for future option
Answer should not found before arrival of question


We get perturbed over slight setback
We don’t address it but make role back
Why do we think it as permanent tragedy?
Can we not laugh it out and make it as comedy?

Nothing comes out of despair or hope
Sometimes you may have to walk on tight rope
God has given us strength to change the direction
Go with firm determination and resolute action

Time may come when you will not look back
People will follow you for guidance and ask
It will be your finest hour to rejoice
You may be able to utter with strong voice

Wait for the day and time till it knocks your door
You must simply acknowledge and don’t try for
It has to come one day and make you smile
You may face the positive world when walk for while

The hideous
Was precious
And quite hilarious
The cruel I hopeful
Was merciful
And quite peaceful

The one I know with lots of felony
For sure was not flighty
But so seemly and kind lady

The diabolic one I consider
I was mistaken, she was neither
But discerning, blessed and she care

God is the one who let me see the truth
Who let me find the real faith
From the keen lady of truth

This pain,
so acute in its objection
that I should ever try to gain relief.
Yesterday,
dragged by my family
to a place I used to frequent.
a restaraunt,
where I met her
7 years ago.

On and off,
a struggle of love,
many years and much confusion.

Divided by college,
united by longing,
destroyed and re-cut
mended
and torn again.

Yesterday,
they dragged me there.

I had been hurting all day,
as if some days are meant for that.
Saddened by a weird feeling
that only sunday can give.

They dragged me,
against my objections,
objections that the senses
will bring.

I walked in,
what were the chances?
corner booth,
blonde hair...

Her,
and another man.


Oh pain,
you are so acute in your objections.

Twas on the 22nd of March, in the year 1885,
That the Arabs rushed like a mountain torrent in full drive,
And quickly attacked General M'Neill's transport-zereba,
But in a short time they were forced to withdraw.

And in the suddenness of surprise the men were carried away,
Also camels, mules, and horses were thrown into wild disarray,
By thousands of the Arabs that in ambush lay,
But our brave British heroes held the enemy at bay.

There was a multitude of camels heaped upon one another,
Kicking and screaming, while many of them did smother,
Owing to the heavy pressure of the entangled mass,
That were tramping o'er one another as they lay on the grass.

The scene was indescribable, and sickening to behold,
To see the mass of innocent brutes lying stiff and cold,
And the moaning cries of them were pitiful to hear,
Likewise the cries of the dying men that lay wounded in the rear.

Then General McNeill ordered his men to form in solid square,
Whilst deafening shouts and shrieks of animals did tend the air,
And the rush of stampeded camels made a fearful din,
While the Arabs they did yell, and fiendishly did grin.

Then the gallant Marines formed the east side of the square,
While clouds of dust and smoke did darken the air,
And on the west side the Berkshire were engaged in the fight,
Firing steadily and cooly with all their might.

Still camp followers were carried along by the huge animal mass,
And along the face of the zereba 'twas difficult to pass,
Because the mass of brutes swept on in wild dismay,
Which caused the troops to be thrown into disorderly array.

Then Indians and Bluejackets were all mixed together back to back,
And for half-an-hour the fire and din didn't slack;
And none but steady troops could have stood that fearful shock,
Because against overwhelming numbers they stood as firm as a rock.

The Arabs crept among the legs of the animals without any dread,
But by the British bullets many were killed dead,
And left dead on the field and weltering in their gore,
Whilst the dying moans of the camels made a hideous roar.

Then General McNeill to his men did say,
Forward! my lads, and keep them at bay!
Come, make ready, my men, and stand to your arms,
And don't be afraid of war's alarms

So forward! and charge them in front and rear,
And remember you are fighting for your Queen and country dear,
Therefore, charge them with your bayonets, left and right,
And we'll soon put this rebel horde to flight.

Then forward at the bayonet-charge they did rush,
And the rebel horde they soon did crush;
And by the charge of the bayonet they kept them at bay,
And in confusion and terror they all fled away.

The Marines held their own while engaged hand-to-hand,
And the courage they displayed was really very grand;
But it would be unfair to praise one corps more than another,
Because each man fought as if he'd been avenging the death of a brother.

The Berkshire men and the Naval Brigade fought with might and main,
And, thank God! the British have defeated the Arabs again,
And have added fresh laurels to their name,
Which will be enrolled in the book of fame.
'Tis lamentable to think of the horrors of war,
That men must leave their homes and go abroad afar,
To fight for their Queen and country in a foreign land,
Beneath the whirlwind's drifting scorching sand.

But whatsoever God wills must come to pass,
The fall of a sparrow, or a tiny blade of grass;
Also, man must fall at home by His command,
Just equally the same as in a foreign land.

Real surprise
Thursday,6th December 2018

I promise
the stranger surprises
with a single word of thankfulness
you can witness the shine on the face

it is like dream come true
when you view
some changes in our attitude
and that makes a different end

life turns out to be beautiful
it seems nothing shall remain sorrowful
it happens for the cause
take out some time, think and pause

what is more important?
it happens instant
eyes speak and words are exchanged
so many things are directly conveyed

the commitment is made
love remains and hate fades
both have a new world to live in
with the vision to go ahead and future to be seen

I wanted a coffee so I went to a cafe
In order to drink a medium strength latte
I preferred to imbibe from a cup, not a pail
Because I'm a human, not some type of whale

I was a little concerned by their naming convention
Of 'Tall', 'Grande', 'Venti', I felt apprehension
I'm not a small person, and I don't eat small
But I didn't want to sip from a cup christened 'Tall'

'Is there one smaller than Tall', I appealed
To not have one, to me, just didn't seem real
She whispered furtively 'We have a kiddies size cup'
Well give me that and from that I will sup

I'm not a kiddy, I can eat a big meal
So what is it with this kiddies size deal
It used to be called normal, as I recall
But now it's kiddy size, I call that gall

I thought mirages appeared
only in the scorching desert heat
but today right from
Our very own comfy vehicle seat
I spotted several, one after another
upon the paved tarmac street!
Each mirage vanishing
upon our nearing
the midst of the clearing
Each pool of water shimmered
as a ray of hope glimmered
that we touch that shiny water
with our car tyre!
So we literally chased mirages
like in a wild goose chase.

A divine light trick of sun rays
Ah, all the phenomena He created
lying there waiting
to be appreciated.
Gleaming glinting puddles in the midst of the road
all the way till we reached our abode.
(Mind you this poem isn't metaphorical
this is the actual
phenomenon of mirages
and they're a sight quite special.
Viewable via eye and camera lens yet untouchable
I've lived in three regions of Africa, West, East and South
This mirage made me think of the North
Where desert dunes abound, deserts with no river mouth.

Kitty, kitty, come in the door
And I will give you cream.
If you bring a fresh caught mouse,
I will surely scream!

Well we have to go back again
Back to when David's marriage began
But this time the stories of Vera his wife
And what David did to give her such strife

It was nearing Vera's birthday time
And David left her a riddling rhyme
What would be multi-coloured, black all over, when you see it
In a box 5ft by 3ft by 1ft and a half inch bit
And the part Vera wanted was the half inch too
Sorry David I hope that half inch isn't you
(Hehehe...I just had to put that through)

Those where the clues that David gave to his wife
She took them to work to share part of her life
She read all the clues to her co-workers there
And they all came up with answers to compare
One said a washing machine, another a settee
But again David had left them unaware you see

So then it came time for Vera's birthday cheer
Vera asked nicely maybe a whisper in his ear
David said your looking straight at it
She looked around the room and was having a fit

David went to the record player and turned it on
And started playing Vera's favorite song
Well now you have all the clues
Did you make a guess to see if you knew?

The multi-coloured was the LP's jacket cover
The size of the box was too throw off his lover


"Evil spirits

You are possessed.
Witch doctors believe in phantoms,
that cause your illness. But, driving out devils
can be challenging. Spirits are given away

We are made to sit opposite you,
Force-fed a ‘meal’bland food mixed
with your hair, nails, spit and pus.
Illegally despite the government ban,
We take your hoard of evil spirits
Barter-system: for having ate your food.

And because ghosts and ghouls
obey your rules, they leave you to come to us.
Is this ‘transference’? An unofficial appeasement.
We become inhabited by the dead,
who ruins our doomed lives. Demons in our
bodies are brutal tenants and frequently,

They suck with their vampire tongues
to drink our anemic blood 
leave their puncture marks, which
can be faintly seen on our black skins;
skins that bear greater scars,
reminders of larger, human cruelty. . .

Anyway, there isn’t a lot of life in our bodies.
We are souls. Wandering souls. Still, once
Ghost-tasted, we rot away. We rot away.
Remember, rotting is a long procedure. . .
Day by day, we grow coffin cold and slowly
Life creeps out, a lazy earthworm.
At last, we die.

We die.



"
"
The Rainy Day 

Sullen clouds are gathering fast over the black fringe of the
forest.
O child, do not go out!
The palm trees in a row by the lake are smiting their heads
against the dismal sky; the crows with their dragged wings are
silent on the tamarind branches, and the eastern bank of the river
is haunted by a deepening gloom.
Our cow is lowing loud, ties at the fence.
O child, wait here till I bring her into the stall.
Men have crowded into the flooded field to catch the fishes
as they escape from the overflowing ponds; the rain-water is
running in rills through the narrow lanes like a laughing boy who
has run away from his mother to tease her.
Listen, someone is shouting for the boatman at the ford.
O child, the daylight is dim, and the crossing at the ferry
is closed.
The sky seems to ride fast upon the madly rushing rain; the
water in the river is loud and impatient; women have hastened home
early from the Ganges with their filled pitchers.
The evening lamps must be made ready.
O child, do not go out!
The road to the market is desolate, the lane to the river is
slippery. The wind is roaring and struggling among the bamboo
branches like a wild beast tangled in a net."
"Blood red,

Shing evily,

Silently laughing at my pain.

He enjoys it,

No...He loves it, The pain he makes others feel.

He does not speak,

But I know when I feel his eyes piercing mine, 

He is laughing inside.

I shiver in fear,

When his eyes, 

Come near.

It is true im scared,

Of his eyes and him, 

His eyes tell the things he does not.

His eyes, 

Blood red, 

Tourment me."
"Untamed
Sitting in a corner so scared and afraid,
he's standing there yelling at me,
and he's the one to blame,
Marks across my face,
From where he had hit me,
People always say that I’ve got it easy.
Bruises on my back,
The blood courses through my veins,
In this dark old room,
There is something untamed.
Scared to say a word,
Just one word to come out,
For no one knows what happens when the beast has made his rounds.
People always stare at me,
I now know what they say,
For all these scars left on my wrist,
The past has been revealed.
I do it one last time,
So no blood runs through these veins
"
"Harry, I'm Scared
 
I had always been the odd one out, in this world of people who seemed to be better than me. I could always hope that one day I would be accepted, but now a days, that hope has turned into misery.

I turned to my best friend and I said; Harry, I'm scared, I can't do it, they would hurt me if I said it.

He just looked at me and frowned and said; You need to learn to stand your ground, Teagan, you're a tough girl you're a fighter, who cares about the unwanted fire.

When Harry said unwanted fire, he meant the heated arguments between my parents.

All you need to do is be brave, and you'll be on your way. 

But I'm not brave like you Harry!

You are in your own way.

I went home that night befuddled by what Harry had said, it didn't explain anything, it made no sense in my head.

My mum saw me from outside, and came out shouting about the time of night.

Do you know what time it is? I was so worried. she would say, but it was only an act, I knew she didn't care, she continues to tell me what a waste of space I am, and that she wasted her money when she adopted me.

I don't care. I said, as I walked past her, I aimed for the door, and next thing you know, I get slapped in the face, it stings for awhile and I turn around, to see another frown.

Now listen to me, do as I say, I know what's right, and from this day, you will not stay out late, you will come home early, you are not the type of girl who wanders the street!

Me being the smart arse I am had to reply which earned me another slap and a Punch from behind.

Technically, it is not day, it is night, so your instruction means nothing what so ever, now leave me be!

Now, my story lays in the hands of the sequel of my soul, and even though you're dead now Harry, here's my message to you, Harry, I'm scared, I am sorry, but I cannot be brave, when I'm filled with worry, I know your story, but you don't know mine, but I think it's time I told you, I was adopted, I was raped, and abused, my parents hurt me in so many ways, these memories will stay with me to my dying days, Harry I miss you, I don't know what to do, I know what your would say to me now, you would say; Yep, your screwed.

I love you Harry, you will always be my best friend, no one will ever replace you, you were right, I can be brave, in my own way, by telling this short story of mine, and publishing it for the world to see, I hope your proud of me. xx

"
"Escape

Trees, trees, trees
Branches, sticks, leaves
Whipping, gashing, slashing at my arms
I can't get away no matter how fast I run

Tripping, falling, crawling on the floor
Ragged cuts, tattered clothes, jagged breathing as I start to slow
My eyes are heavy, my vision blurred
Distant images start to stir

He's right behind me, he's catching up
I have to keep moving but my legs have had enough
Getting dizzy about to pass out, a distant figure starts to stand out
A distant scream, a whispered plea, I can't believe it came from me

Pulse is racing, a feeling of hands, a gentle hush as I'm helped to stand
It's him, he's caught me, please strength don't leave me yet
Let me be anything but his sullied pet
I have to leave, I have to get away, I fall to my knees and let my head sway

Stopping he stares at me and gives a mirrored laugh
Then he reaches for me as I start to move back
I'm to slow, he's to fast, I can't get away, he's taking me back
I can't let this happen, I must react

Heads to fuzzy, I'm getting to weak
I'm stumbling over my own feet
One chance, a pull, a twist, a po+A71p and a moan
I'm not the one with a broken bone

I'm still running, he's still coming
My strength's about to give out
Dead end, cliffs end, water and rocks below
Tell me, if you had a choice which way would you go?


"
"Stay Strong

I have this illness
that I've suffered from for so long 
and I don't know how
but I've got to find a way to stay strong, 
I wish I could get over it really quick 
because it's making me go insane 
and it hurts when people pick
It just causes so much pain 
I just wish I could stay strong 
It really bothers me 
because I don't know what's wrong 
I'm telling myself not to cry 
but it's so hard to try 
there's got to be a way for me to stay strong 

As the days go by
I feel worse and worse 
so many things have gone wrong 
and it's just so hard to stay strong
I've got to cry 
so as the tears run down my eyes 
I realized I don't have the strength 
to stay strong


"
"Fear
I'm so tired of all the pain,
Just please let it rain,
So I can hide my tears,
So no one can see my fears,
That are going to keep haunting, 
For the rest of my life,
Just want it all to disappear,
So I don't have to deal with my fears,
Just want it all to go away,
I just hope I can be okay, 
I'm so tired of running,
I'm so sick of hiding,
All my pain is building up,
It all just hurts way too much,
I'm so tired of all the pain,
Just please let it rain,
So I can hide all my tears,
So no one can tell I am full of fear"
"It
I'm running out of breath
I can't believe its so hard to breath
My hearts pounding in my chest 
As I wonder if IT found me
I hide under the covers and pretend I'm invisible
Then I turn around and IT is still there
I scream and pray IT would just go away
I'm running and running but IT is
Right behind me 
I've been running from this thing for 5 years now
I stop running and decide to face my fears
Once and for all
As I stand face to face to what has caused me
So much misery and pain
I stop
I look deeper and deeper into IT's eyes
Than I realize that IT is me
"
"Mirror

I want you to have it all
My soul, my mistakes, my heart,
You have the key to my innermost thoughts
Slowly unlocking every door 
That shades you from me, from what I don't want you to see 
MY TRUE COLORS

Running away from you, from the one who 
relates, listens ,and appreciate me for who 
I AM
Chasing you away from my heart, willing to feel lonely
Just so you wont have a way to hurt me.
Constantly chasing you in circles never knowing were it began
and were it will end

You've unlocked everything, you've seen
my fears, my secrets, my joy,
Only one door left as you open it all you see
is a MIRROR, my biggest fear
facing fear itself, my mistakes
MYSELF"
"Im Sorry For Me
 
We have been friends for about a year,
And this is honestly my worst fear.

I'm scared of our friendship ending,
I think it is, and my heart is mending.

I'm sorry if I did something wrong,
I'm sorry if I wasn't strong.

I'm sorry that our friendship didn't work out,
But most of all, I'm sorry that I gave you doubt.

I didn't mean to be mean at all,
I didn't mean to give you a fall.

I just wanted our friendship to work out,
I didn't want you to scream and shout.

I just fear you're going to be a popular one day,
I fear that and if you do, I'm going to have to pay.

You don't know what it's like to cry yourself to sleep,
And this whole time I've really been hurting underneath.

Anyway, I just hope you see the sky not cloudy but starry,
And all I wanted to say was I'm sorry
"
"I Hate Poems
user img
I try to write a poem,
but poems are too hard
Rhyming is for losers
and airy-fairy bards
 
To put a pen to paper
and write about your life
I've had enough of all of those,
they only cause me strife
 
Free-verse script is awful,
for fools without a beat
Repetition's far too simple
just repeat, repeat, REPEAT
 
Those lovey-dovey ode-things,
that wishy-washy crap
And poems about hatred,
you all deserve a slap
 
Spare me all your ramblings,
I don't care how you feel
Your self-expression surely stinks
of mouldy day-old eel
 
To tell a tale of wonder
never ceases to be trite
To sing of magic wonders
is nothing but pure e
 
Your metaphors are useless,
your imagery is vile
Your sense of diction makes me gag,
I cannot stand your style
 
So save me your quotations,
please spare me all your rhyme
Shove that poem up your rear
and cease to waste my time
 
 
I look at what I've written,
this jumble of clichés
Looks like I wrote a bloody poem
so I'm the one to blame!
"
"Fear Itself Is Undefined
I lay on my bed soaking my pillow with my tears,
I try to remember exactly what it is that I fear.
Is it the passing of time or the love that I lack?
Is it the mistakes that I've made or the fact that I can't bring the past back?
What is it that I'm afraid of? 
Why am I so scared?
Is it the people I've hurt or the people that have hurt me?
Am I afraid of everything that I cant seem to see?
Is it the love of a friend, or the loss of my family?
Is it the possibility that my life can end in a tragedy? 
What is it that I fear most? 
What do my eyes say I'm scared of? 
Is it the sun that sets but won't seem to rise?
Is it the hope that I have that always seems to die?
Is it the trust of a person that I cannot begin to grasp?
Is it all the memories of my horrid past?
Is it me? 
Can it possibly be that the thing I fear most is the thing I can't be? 
The things that I try to understand? 
The me that I try to be with when I'm feeling sad? 
The person I'm expected to be? Is that what I fear? . . . 
I think the thing I fear most . . .is me"
"Last Resort

A plethora of predicaments race in my mind at best, 
which one can I fathom to ponder about next. 
Shall I even think of acting upon what my mind stirs about, 
or cry my soul asleep by this never ending drought. 
What will my career be, 
the words last resort come screaming at me with no one to yell halt. 
The quick years will pass then they will hit me and it's my own fault. 
All of my solutions come bearing a bag of infinite errors, 
my late night thoughts give me shrieking terrors. 
At what point in time does this maze come to a close. 
On the inside I am slowly weeping but on the outside I pose. 
I look around my room and it does not express myself. 
Question creeps in my eyes at the princess sign of the shelf. 
I am feeling confusion, don't worry not despair. 
All I really want in this life is to be without a care.


"
"He Is Here

When her mother gone, 
the little child's body feels revealed,
for the shadows speaks, you are not alone.

Close the shower curtains, cover any holes and doors; 
I am afraid he can see you even more.

He is listening to all calls, quiet, we have to be careful, what we say,
can you hear him breathing … dogs barking through the phone? He is tapping in, everyday.

Lounging in his recliner, daring any distractions in front of his screen, If you dare to cross it, there will a tree on your back, with blood easy to be seen.

So never forget, once you cross him, you will be repaid, for he will always be watching, for a mess up, to get you that day.

With our friends, he tickled or hugged,
sexually and inappropriately, why? Just because.

Jealous of the children, for his mind is like a child, needy at all times.
wanting all attention from mommy, and If not gained, for this little child, she says, pain will be mine.

Off from work he comes, releasing all anger held inside.
I am hiding in my room as a child, covered ears, as tears rolled from my eyes.

Mommy cries from the mental affects, I assured her it OK, but his voice shouted, he wanted me out of the way.

He said the boys were always a sin, for being a male, told his story from before, all were afraid of him, even for a date, was an ungodly knock at door.

In dreams, he touched, manipulated and lied, as an adult predator, in the midnight hour, mommy, please come home save me, I am telling the truth, your child not a liar.

Wanting, not grateful for all that he can get, smiling, while fake as can be,
after getting what he wants, he turns on you, stinging like a bee.

Mommy please do not let him punish in anger, with a belt in his hand firm and anchored, but let it be in love, Please Jesus, help me from above.

Never to love the children, he rather seek selfish desires, we will always be his enemies, in memory, his abuse remain ours.


"
"How Do You?

How do you tell a friend that you are worried about them?
That you think that they are not making good decisions right now.
That it scares you to see them like this.
You know that you will be there for them, but how do you make them see that?
How do you tell them so they don't get mad?
Do you tell them straight up so they deny it saying they are ok?
It's complicated no matter who you are.
It hurts to see your friends like this.
You don't want to push them away because you have a special bond.
So how do you tell someone you love, this?
There is no easy way.


"
"Me, God And The Devil

I've been tainted and shamed
Behind my pretty facade
Impured by lust and passion
Corrupted by silly illusions
My soul more broken than my heart.

No saint can save me now
I'm a sinner with no savior
So I ask God to just take me now
I want to feel numb forever
Numb, cold, and dead.

I didn't know innocence can be a sin
Accessory to evil plots
I fell against his will
Leaving me hopelessly scared, 
Trapped and good as dead.

No one knows I've got a secret
A secret I couldn't trust someone to keep
No one knows what I went through
The pain and misery I still feel
No one knows except me, God, and the devil too.


"
"The Abuse

When I was little you abused me in every way
you hurt me and didn't care because you felt no
shame.

When I was little I didn't know what you were
doing wasn't okay.

When I was little I would cry myself to sleep
I would try to hide the tears and try to hide 
from the pain.

Bruises all over no more lies to cover up
now no one to talk to because of the pain.

Finally one day I came to a crossroad do I tell
or just stay hidden beneath the covers all day?

You now are in prison but I still feel the pain 
I don't want to cry no more because it's tearing me 
down...

So for you dear daddy I won't shed another tear

the end


"
"Suicide

Suicide tempts me every time I swallow, 
all because this destructive life lead, 
and the paths I follow. 
I'm invisible to myself,
and will soon be to everyone who once cared. 
Many never believed me, 
others always dared. 
Hurting everyone whomever had my back. 
The only way I deserve to leave this world is in a black polyester sack. 
My life, 
what life, 
is all down the drain, 
the only love of my life and all my family left in pain.
I'm sorry everyone, 
I'm sorry for all I've done, 
but the pain will end now, 
it will all end once I'm gone. 
A slice to wrist, 
a cut to the throat, 
sleeping pills for the pain hallucinating of being afloat. 
Lifting to the heaven that I could only dream, 
blood dripping from my torso like melting ice cream. 
No breath, 
no life, 
no soul, 
I'm sorry mom,
I'm sorry dad, 
but finally I feel like I can unfold.


 "
"Cry For Help!!!

I thirst for help before it’s to late..... 
I stand alone in the darkness as I lay......
the might of his fist feels like burning coal.....
the power of his kick ordains the soul...... 
the fire in his eyes makes you blind....
but my cry for help you can not find..... 
I need help and someone to help me now....
he won’t let me leave him so I don't know how.....
he is passive and controlling...... 
as he push me around my body rolling...... 
I don't think I can save myself......
someone listen to my cry for help!!!


"
"I Wish I Knew Who I Am

You tell me you love me 
I tell you the same
I don't know who I am 
it's a shame it's insane

I want to love me and you 
like I love my own son
Inside I feel dead 
and I'm totally numb

I prick my finger 
from a rose with a thorn
A reminder that our children 
are of the purest of form

A mirror reflection of body we are
The more I look the more that I scar
The more that I scar the better I feel
In this crazy world that seems oh so unreal

The whole world is my stage 
it helps cover my fear
For we are all merely actors 
according to Shakespeare

When I speak of the truth it feels like a noose
That's slowly stretching my neck
And then when I lie the noose opens wide
And postpones the decent to my death

I feel so amused or maybe confused
Of the thoughts that run through my head
Its just so unfair with these thoughts I compare
My whole life I just can't stay ahead

Is it me is it you
Is it life is it truth
Is it destiny or time
Is it yours is it mine

I don't know but I hope it comes soon
Because it HURTS


 "
"She Wears My Shoes

She rode on my wings, 
shared her dreams, 
and lit my life with such a glow.
I was her protector, teacher and friend, 
and will be her mother until my end 
I made a lot of mistakes not knowing the cost in the end, 
I never intended to hand down the same shoes my mother handed me. 
But I see that is what I did. 
And crushing all her dreams. 
It has been over four years since we have last spoken, 
but never a day passes that I don't send my love to the stars above, 
and ask for an Angel to open up their wings 
and take my place and guide her to follow all her dreams. 
She will always have a place in my heart that will never be replaced, 
This is how a mothers love was always meant to be.
I hope that someday our paths will cross again, 
and I can hold her in my arms 
and tell her I understand better than she could ever know
I understand what I did in passing the shoes to her.
If I could take it all back, believe me I would.
But, for now it’s out of my hands.


"
"Go

Why do I stay when I want to go?
Is it because I have hope?
Or maybe it is because I don’t want to be alone.

I stay and all I do is complain.
Complain that I might be going insane.
Insane of the thought that it might be my fault.

But who is to blame?
Is it me or is it him?
Neither one of us will go.

Although we know we must go.
All we do is ignore the pain.
Of all the words we exchange.

I know I must go but I don’t know.
If I go I will be alone.
But why do I stay?
Only to hear him say
You’re to blame for all my unhappiness and pain.

I know I’m not to blame for the choices he has made.
So I stay hoping he will grow.
Grow in love and be consoled knowing I will never go.


"
"I Thank You

You kept it real
You told no lies
I trusted your words
And you said that it was okay to cry
Hidden from an ocean of lies from the
people closest to me....
But you, you revealed them all
You answered questions never asked
And you showed no regret
And with that I Thank You!
Wishing the truth were lies
Expecting a laugh and you telling me
that it was all a
Joke!
The truth hit me, then stabbed me, then
killed me a thousand
Times....
I cried that night with the never ending
thought of the truth....
I thought I knew my life I thought I
understood it all....
But you opened my eyes and unwrapped
the hurtful truth....
And I Thank You for being there, to hold
my hand....through it all....
And I can never thank you enough for
opening the closet of Skeletons....



"
"The Voyage

The vessel's memories haunt the gloom of the night,
I survey its changed shape since days of yore,
As I stumble, tremble and fumble to the fore,
The mute faces stare with hope as they might,
Dreaming of the New World's coming at first light,
The pining youth cross the threshold of the door,
They are visibly stricken and shaken to the core;
We are ghastly, haggard shells and filled with fright,
As our modern voyage sails into the shades of night.

My heart breaks;
A mother's fears,
A sister's tears,
My soul quakes,
A brother nears,
My Earth shakes.


"
"The Storm

The winds are wild
The lightning strikes
The thunder booms
The storm is coming

The storm represents your fears
And all that you have run away from
They’ve come back for their revenge
Will you face it or run away?

Run away, like you did before
Let your friends fall, like you did before
Or face it, like you should
Help them, like you should

Chin held high and heart strong
Your blood races
The lighting strikes, the thunder booms
You will not run away
You will fight


"
"The Circle


ow of a bride, 
And betel-nut's red for lips that are sweet; 
But, for lily-like fingers and feet, 
The red, the red of the henna-tree. 

Indian Dancer

EYES ravished with rapture, celestially panting, what passionate bosoms aflaming with fire 
Drink deep of the hush of the hyacinth heavens that glimmer around them in fountains of light; 
O wild and entrancing the strain of keen music that cleaveth the stars like a wail of desire, 
And beautiful dancers with houri-like faces bewitch the voluptuous watches of night.


The scents of red roses and sandalwood flutter and die in the maze of their gem-tangled hair, 
And smiles are entwining like magical serpents the poppies of lips that are opiate-sweet; 
Their glittering garments of purple are burning like tremulous dawns in the quivering air, 
And exquisite, subtle and slow are the tinkle and tread of their rhythmical, slumber-soft feet.


Now silent, now singing and swaying and swinging, like blossoms that bend to the breezes or showers, 
Now wantonly winding, they flash, now they falter, and, lingering, languish in radiant choir; 
Their jewel-girt arms and warm, wavering, lily-long fingers enchant through melodious hours, 
Eyes ravished with rapture, celestially panting, what passionate bosoms aflaming with fire! 


Leili

The serpents are asleep among the poppies, 
The fireflies light the soundless panther's way 
To tangled paths where shy gazelles are straying, 
And parrot-plumes outshine the dying day. 
O soft! the lotus-buds upon the stream 
Are stirring like sweet maidens when they dream. 


A caste-mark on the azure brows of Heaven, 
The golden moon burns sacred, solemn, bright 
The winds are dancing in the forest-temple, 
And swooning at the holy feet of Night. 
Hush! in the silence mystic voices sing 
And make the gods their incense-offering. 
Nightfall In The City Of Hyderabad

SEE how the speckled sky burns like a pigeon's throat, 
Jewelled with embers of opal and peridote. 


See the white river that flashes and scintillates, 
Curved like a tusk from the mouth of the city-gates. 


Hark, from the minaret, how the muezzin's call 
Floats like a battle-flag over the city wall. 


From trellised balconies, languid and luminous 
Faces gleam, veiled in a splendour voluminous. 


Leisurely elephants wind through the winding lanes, 
Swinging their silver bells hung from their silver chains. 


Round the high Char Minar sounds of gay cavalcades 
Blend with the music of cymbals and serenades. 


Over the city bridge Night comes majestical, 
Borne like a queen to a sumptuous festival. 

Song Of A Dream

ONCE in the dream of a night I stood 
Lone in the light of a magical wood, 
Soul-deep in visions that poppy-like sprang; 
And spirits of Truth were the birds that sang, 
And spirits of Love were the stars that glowed, 
And spirits of Peace were the streams that flowed 
In that magical wood in the land of sleep.


Lone in the light of that magical grove, 
I felt the stars of the spirits of Love 
Gather and gleam round my delicate youth, 
And I heard the song of the spirits of Truth; 
To quench my longing I bent me low 
By the streams of the spirits of Peace that flow 
In that magical wood in the land of sleep. 

The Bangle Sellers

Bangle sellers are we who bear
Our shining loads to the temple fair...
Who will buy these delicate, bright
Rainbow-tinted circles of light?
Lustrous tokens of radiant lives,
For happy daughters and happy wives.

Some are meet for a maiden's wrist,
Silver and blue as the mountain mist,
Some are flushed like the buds that dream
On the tranquil brow of a woodland stream,
Some are aglow wth the bloom that cleaves
To the limpid glory of new born leaves

Some are like fields of sunlit corn,
Meet for a bride on her bridal morn,
Some, like the flame of her marriage fire,
Or, rich with the hue of her heart's desire,
Tinkling, luminous, tender, and clear,
Like her bridal laughter and bridal tear.

Some are purple and gold flecked grey
For she who has journeyed through life midway,
Whose hands have cherished, whose love has blest,
And cradled fair sons on her faithful breast,
And serves her household in fruitful pride,
And worships the gods at her husband's side. 


The Queen's Rival

QUEEN GULNAAR sat on her ivory bed, 
Around her countless treasures were spread; 

Her chamber walls were richly inlaid 
With agate, porphory, onyx and jade; 

The tissues that veiled her delicate breast, 
Glowed with the hues of a lapwing's crest;




 lasts

Hemorrhage and convulse as you wish it would pass








Anger is like making crosses and saying praise,
Opening the hearts for a time, penetrating always.








It's just me.
I got nothing on eternity.
Can't be as true as the stars,
You see?
Treat people horribly,
Be what the definition of bore
Should be.

Be assured.
Your eyesight is not skewed.
It's just me.







that dudes so mean
I could tell by the way his guts rolled over his belt
we were dealing with an authority
I'm mean
what a fiend
far from lean
feeling supreme
saw him acoss the tracks oh boy now I got to talk to him
he seeing me and saying oh I hope he don't talk to me
We english cant even speak it proper
he looks at me like Im the pauper

with his
I
play
golf
this is this
first things first when years ago
I was just as wide eyed as you boy
singing 'rolling on a river' with no care for my job.
Now since the kids and that two timing broad
who grabbed the corners of my mouth
she keeps sinking with my frown
still parachuting still falling down
I cant beat bitter
I forgot how to dream







I see you I hear you
moving you're mouth
my moments pass
with the lacking of time
we argue every time
I put my makeup
on in the mean time
and you go on agitating
every moment making my
head hurt with you're flawless
logic and reality for you are nothing
but my angry reflection looking back at me








I can't recall for sure
When first I got angry
For a long time it didn't matter
But then I drank
and drank
and melted my mind

Bit by bit
Day by day

Why so angry?
So many nots...
Not good enough, not fast enough
and a lot of - not confident enough
So my head was crowded
with negative perceptions

Self perceptions
Self beliefs, shutting me down.

 rise on its own joy from the depths of the heart
Is crushed by heedless clamour, like a fountain under a stone.
The song and Baraj Lal's feelings go separate ways,
But he sings for all he is worth, to keep up the honour of his king.

One of the verses of the song has somehow slipped from his mind.
He quickly goes back, tries to get it right this time.
Again he forgets, it is lost, he shakes his head at the shame;
He starts the song at the beginning - again he has to stop.
His hand trembles doubly as he prays to his teachers name.
His voice quakes with distress, like a lamp guttering in a breeze.
He abandons the words of the song and tries to salvage the tune,
But suddenly his wide-mouthed singing breaks into loud cries.
The intricate melody goes to the winds, the rhythm is swept away -
Tears snap the thread of the song, cascade like pearls.
In shame he rests his head on the old tanpura in his lap -
He has failed to remember a song:  he weeps as he did as a child.
With brimming eyes king Pratap Ray tenderly touches his friend:
'Come, let us go from here,' he says with kindness and love.
They leave that festive hall with its hundreds of blinding lights.
The two old friends go outside, holding each other's hands.

Baraj says with hands clasped, 'Master, our days are gone.
New men have come now, new styles and customs in the world.
The court we kept is deserted - only the two of us are left.
Don't ask anyone to listen to me now, I beg you at your feet, my lord.
The singer along does not make a song, there has to be someone who hears:
One man opens his throat to sing, the other sings in his mind.
Only when waves fall on the shore do they make a harmonious sound;
Only when breezes shake the woods do we hear a rustling in the leaves.
Only from a marriage of two forces does music arise in the world.
Where there is no love, where listeners are dumb, there never can be song.'

 recall and relish
Enough a life time to cherish..

The sweetness more sweeter than the cake,
Each child a blossom presented
plucked from the garden of soul,
To savour the nectar of the moment
Adds an year to life span potent!

I loved him and him me;
Unexplained it was
Everyone knew it, and I liked it that way
It was exclusive; every passing day.
Save for the surprise…

He opened my eyes to the world
For he taught me;
How to receive the best and the worst;
That to be happy you have to forgive fast
But then, he had a surprise…

This man, he was perfect, in his way.
Matters kindness, his life was an example
Our love grew; days to years,
His strength; Oh, I had no fears.
In love, only not filled in for the surprise…

Things started to change, they always do
Another vector life took; and this man,
He gave in. I still don’t understand
How my warrior gave in. such a painful stunt;
And I, had to conform to the surprise…

“Keep on keeping on;
Life is tough, but you are the best.”
Well, my wish is that this saying
Could only be affirmed before your parting
I’m sad. For death was the paining surprise.

Surprises surprise us
They seem to come from nowhere
They lie hidden in some corner
Come all of a sudden
To catch us unawares
They give us
so many moments
of pleasure
Speaking the words of love and
springing from
a true heart

A surprise
took me over
Suddenly welled up
my tears
They flowed without check
When in the voice of my love
They said
I am here, I am here

It surprised me
When it came
stealthily from behind
Putting hands on my eyes
Asked
Tell me who am I, who am I?

Oh surprises surprise me
When they come in different colors
And merge into one
And become indistinguishable
From each other.

This past weekend in China
Was a long weekend
A national holiday
Known as The Dragon Boat Festival
Crews raced up and down
The Qiantang river in Hangzhou
Supporters waved banners and cheered loudly
Now the weekend is coming to a close
And this Monday afternoon
Students slowly drifted back
From their home towns and cities
I got a call from Florence
My good friend and student translator
She had just got back onto campus
And was anxious for us to eat dinner together
There was an uncharacteristic air of excitement
In her voice
Which left me wondering
What was up with her
We met for dinner at the canteen
And loaded our trays with the usual fare
But no sooner had we sat down
When Florence said
I have a surprise for you
I brought back from my home town
After this brief introduction
She took a bag of beetles
Out of her back pack
Would you like to try one
She asked
Now I know bugs are toted
In some quarters
As being the ideal source of fat free protein
In fact the majority of the world's population
Eat bugs
And while I was trying
To decide his every one of us becomes His messengers and angels
like those three angels in the oven.

My eyes are open for your messages and to all messages
was but where my dad was in my thoughts buried on a wet rainy day
I do not want to be buried but rather to be turned to ashes
on a sunny spring or summer day
with my ashes blowing away in the wind,
to become a part of everything that does exist
of the water, the air and the earth
but also of that which do bring pain
as life is a complex thing
in which good and evil, joy and pain do exist
and from all of this
I myself cannot stand separate
as I am trying to bring truth and righteousness
to a world that is quickly loosing its discourse,
do tell about heartache, pain and misery
but also about the things that do make life great and wonderful,
try to jump out with my poems as with a Moses-staff
and like this I do want to go into my death.

Wingless I am not yet an angel
and maybe so full of darkness in the eyes of some people
never ever be one
and the feathered friends that do visit me
is but the sparrow, the wild-doves the hoopoe,
the black-collard barbet, the Indian minahs
and yellow and red weavers
and the yellow barbet with its checked wings
but with my being gone they will not even miss me
and just with the care my trees and flowers in my garden
will know that I am not present
but the Godly-son is thoroughly aware of every condition of my life and death
and those who fear my verses and do fear me through them
will be happy that they will not read a further dead word
but on a day the Godly-son will come
to awake me in another condition but still in the I and me
on His great judgement and salvation day.

They love to fear
That fear to love.

Fear not dear brothers, fear not.
Nothing is going to happen.
No earth is there to go to hell.
Fear not, dear brothers, fear not.
The sky is not there to fall.

"Oh, oh", said the doctor shaking his head as he was listening
with a stethoscope to his patient's chest. Actually, the patient
was fine and the doctor's interjection came because he suddenly
remembered that he forgot to call his wife.

However, the patient did not know this. He was suddenly struck
by horrible panic and already heard the rhythmic footsteps of
the approaching death. Anxious and frightened he became
a victim of iatrogenics, or medicine caused illness.

Although his heart was quite normal and he had no organic heart
condition, soon he developed cardiac neurosis.
Due to severe stress reactions he started to experience
palpitations, shortness of breath, exhaustion and chest pain.

