I can see it
Don’t even try and hide it
Why do you try to
Don’t you know that I can practically see through you

So now that you know what will you do...cry?
I bet you fell like you want to fly
I bet now you want to die
Ha…Don’t even try to lie
Come on don’t be shy!
I can see into your eye
I can tell whenever you speak a lie
I'll even be there when you die
So now it doesn't matter if you can fly

I see you when you look in the mirror
I can see all your fear
I can feel every tear you shed
And, I followed you when you so called fled

Her face in fright silently waiting,
Conscious conflicts strong enough to lose her sanity,
The feeling of guilt and responsibility,
The games they play they play silently,

She waits with lighted cigarette thinking of possibilities,
Perhaps out of existence there is a strong sense of right and wrong,
Here, all that exists are bodies blood and raw,
Afternoon comes slowly to sleep is fear,

They fight for freedom for it is better to fight and die than live under oppression and fear,
Young men waiting, survivors they are,
Perhaps they survive as the chopper comes,

Those survivors are shot, shot on the ground,
Fear of dying silently waits, you light a cigarette waiting for the break of day.

do not fear, there is always wine
if you are thirsty for love.

do not fear, there is always water
if your lips are parched.

donot fear your ruin, inside you
there is a treasure.

open your eyes, for this world
is only a dream.

Fear in my mind
Of the anger in side
Try to hold back
before I attack
I can’t escape
When my anger awakes
I try to run
but it pulls me along
scared, afraid
can’t get way
the only life I know
consumed by anger
don’t let it out
or pain and anguish
will rein about
I can’t control it
Only one way out
Slit my wrist
Pull the trigger
Barry me six feet under
To decay and wither
I’ll take my pain and anger
w/t me to the grave
then piece will come
to my family and friends
then they’ll live happily
till there ends

Afraid of the world,
Afraid of regret,
Afraid of the things she'll never forget.
Afraid of the truth,
Afraid of the inside,
afraid of nowhere to go and hide.

Afraid of appearence,
Afraid of a short fall,
Afraid of the things she'll never get at all.

But fear is so small,
Our lives are too short,
There is no fear in heaven,
Where we are sure to report.

Fear is nothing not the world on your shoulders,
Does fear really matter?

Or is it our friends and our family that matter to us,
So close and dear,
I don't know what I would do,
If no friends were near.

So next time you have fear,
try to recall,
that fear does not matter at all. :)

A dome of dark, gloomy clouds caps this landscape.
But, not for rain.
A cacophony of thunderous applause shakes the land.
But, not for rain.
A frenzy of flashes hurries the folks to bolt their doors.
But, not for rain.
I fear…
The omen.
I fear
The feigned repentance of shepherds has herded the flock astray.
I fear
The gavel of judgment is now resounding for a rebellious nation.
I fear
The time has arrived to harvest the fruits of the seeds of injustice.
I fear
The goblets of kings are brimming with sour wine of indignation.
I fear
The whetted swords of punishment demarcated the soil for justice.
I fear
The deluge of the cries of lamentation drowning a hapless people.
I fear...
The omen.


Am I the one you put together?
Or the ready-made different other
Am I the real me
Or the one you want me to be
Am I the one you put so high?
High above all
(If I am)
I fear I may fall
And end up with a hole
In my fragile soul
And disappoint us all

The fear.../
Come from all around you/
Tease you/
while you lonely/
Something that being miserable/
Fear
Could you hear that...../
The voice of it coming/
Catch you and whispering................/
'll you cry? /
Shout? ! ! ! /
See that...../
Find it/
The voice that makes you cry/
Call you to find the meaning...../
Call you to crack them/
Why? /
Cause...../
You are not alone! /
You live by society..../
You live by warm...../
You live by LOVE! /
From everyone that loving you..../

There is a nagging gnawing on the inside of my self
It’s the feeling of my body giving up before its time.
In the quiet twilight hours between one prayer and another
Once I prayed for health
Now I pray for peace.

There is a writhing moaning in the deepness of my heart
It’s the devil down within me that wants me to complain.
But I have built a fortress with the patience of my faith
And I will shelter there
However harsh the pain.

There is a desperate longing in the reach of my embrace
For life and love and happiness and gentle many years
But I shall fold my arms around the comfort of my prayer
And I may often cry
But never bitter tears.

Have you ever gone through the past of your fear?
Have you ever wanted to disapear?
In the trouble of our mind
Green, blue, red and black are the feelings I find

Standing at the river
Across the sea
Now I know
There's every feeling out of me

So lying on my knees
With the hard thought of the end
I lose you, my oh ~ my friend
In the trouble of my mind

And all you see
never mind,
'cos death is the thin
you will find

Its so hard to be strong
when 'Strength' has ran away
to a place just out of reach
I pray 'it' will come back one day.

Heard some news that saddened me
prayed to God for 'strength' to come
and sit and and visit me on top
a mound of fear far away from psalms.

The fear it kept me up this night
of losing someone dear to me
someone who mere knowing was sick
it pulled at me as it shredded me.

My eyes close now as my fingers
found the familar well worn keys and...
as I drift off to sleep, I feel God
pick me up, then lay me down to sleep.

I am stood here in the rain
Hoping the drops will wash away my pain
It washes away my tears
But still left are all my fears
What if you did not love me, it was all a lie?
Just the thought of that makes me start to cry
Why don’t I just believe you?
Tell myself this must be true
For such a beauty I can’t believe
How could someone so beautiful love me?

It keeps you alive, yet scared and tortured at the same time
Suffocates like a snake, quickly latching, as everything becomes darker
Haunts you when your eyes close
Nightmares, endless tears, pictures burnt in memory
Startled, jumping, screaming
Heart racing, sweaty palms, no concentration
Smells make you nauseous, nothing appetizing
Look over your shoulder, something, you can feel it
Look back again, nothing, but you feel it stronger
Looking into someone's eyes, you search for their true self, maybe a threat
Darkness becomes your enemy
Slowly but surely your whole life starts fade
Heart beats fear throughout
Constant, steady, doses
It becomes so intense, nothing else matters anymore
Isolated, alone, no one understanding
Fear consumes, and eats alive
It will eat everything, like acid does
Until you're gone
Done
Consumed

Fear
what is fear
is it when you get scared
is when you practically pee your pants
can you feel fear
breathing on you
when you are scared
fear is when
people get scared
but i dont get
the reason why people get scared
what make's them so scared
to not love life no more
they use to have
why has fear caused this
feeling
when did it start
some people
love fear
then they hate fear
but what has caused this
feeling in the first place
no think what has
caused this fear.! !

Yes it’s me, its fear again, that feeling to get to know you
I came to meet you a few times, but you didn’t let me in
Let me tell you about myself
I’m your friend, the best you’ll ever have
and the worst there’s ever been
I won’t lie to you, yet I’ll always have your back
Telling you the truth, might sound rude

Where are you running to, why do you avoid me
Why do you turn down every chance to know me
I’m not scary, just lonely, you’ll get used to it trust me
I’m the honest opinion inside your head
That feeling you get in your gut
Not the monster they make me out to be
Or some alien personality
You’re not a robot navigated by remote control
or a shadow that follows around
Be your own king wear your own crown
Let me give you my advice, even though you don’t what to hear it
Let me in to your life, let me give you my opinion
The fear is of fear itself, the feeling to feel and be yourself
It’s not lonely, don’t worry I’ll keep you company
You’ve got the power to tell your own story
So don’t let me sit there collecting dusty and getting rusty
Cause all that will do, is make me more scary


Fear embraces like a persistent lover.
The more one struggles,
The tighter its hold.
The only way to break free
Is to embrace it,
Suffocate it.
Or love it.

Fear me i am death...
but i dont fear death...
death is me only friend...
why do i try to makje things
better when i only make things
worse...
Fear me I am Death...
i feel no pain...my life is painless...
i have hurt myself so much that i feel
no more pain..i just feel releved after I
see the blood on my wrist...i just wish that
my blood would just never stop bleeding....
so then i would die...
FEAR ME I AM DEATH......I fear love
like the wild fox
always so ready to bite
to devour its heart’s delicacy

I fear the lightening bolt of love
like the hidden venomous snake
poised to strike the soul
not knowing where, till its fallen

I fear the hungry love
happily gnawing away
on the meat of my heart
leaving stains in its feasting wake

I fear accepting love
its safer to freely give away
than accept, commit
and admit a heart’s necessity

I fear your love
exposing my true weakness
that I may not be able
to live without it


You are hiding my dear
because your are frightened,
What now,
when there is nothing to fear?

You are healing my dear
because your are wounded,
What now
when it's normal to be near?

You are better my dear
because your are cherished.
What now,
when your thoughts are again clear?



Like the devil in his disguise
I'm haunting your every move.
Step by step I walk beside you
deep inside every single groove.

I'll watch as you try and fly away
with your black shredded wings..
I'll pick up all these tiny pieces
of what a broken heart steadily brings.

I'll haunt you in your mind baby
every day and all through the night..
I'll fed away at your every single fear
until you can no longer seem to fight..

I'll be the existence you hate the most
the one you fear and wish were to die..
I'll be the one to make you suffer
until the day you finally rot and die..

For you drove me into the ground
as I felt you spit on my only remains.
You left me for dead and walked away
as you left me out in the pouring rain..

My only path is to make you shake
at my words that eat away at your mind..
Cause now I'm destined to impair your life
like you so cold heartedly destroyed mine..

I love him
I love him with all my heart and soul
But I have a fear
A fear that I cant tell is real memory or just a fear I planted inside myself
But either way
I fear
Not for me
Not for my well being
But for his
For the man who saved me from death
Who brought light, love, and trust to my life
I fear that he will be hurt and maybe worse
I fear cause it would be my fault
Cause of this memory I cant tell is real or not
If it is real
Then not only will he be hurt but I will be forever in captivity
In a place I don't want to be
Being forced to love a man who will not die
Being away from all I care for
And most of all with the knowledge that it was all my fault
My fault for his hurt both Physical and mental
For it would be my fault
The downfall of the man I love with all my heart
The pain maximized in my love
The torment in my Kyle
And I fear for him
Not for myself
If I could find the truth buried deep inside him I would be able to save him
And save both our hearts
So until the truth is revealed
I must fear
And I must have the nightmares
I just hope this fear is artificial
And that I may live the rest of my days in happiness
But if not it will be the downfall of two people in love
Cause of a fucked up future that cannot be changed
That cannot be avoided
That was not chosen by me but by the ones who made me
So until the truth is revealed
I must fear

My worst fear is letting you down.
Telling you I screwed up
makes me want to cry.

I’m afraid to see that frown.
You believe in me
but I just screwed up.

When I screwed up
The first thing I saw was your face.
Now all I can do is walk with my face down.

Now I have to face my worse fear.
All I can hope for is
that it won't bring tears.

While speaking I
Noticed my sister move into my sight
And suddenly she was not 12
But 4 to my fright.
Her face had contorted in my minds eye
And I stared at the face of her little girl eyes
Fear, Fear drenched my body in cold sweat
She mumbled her sufferings in a continous lull
But all of my focus was fixed to her face
Youth, innocent
God, forgive me this rebase
For I began to back away
From this vision-my eyes now closed tight
God please take it away
just leave me alone this night
And so with a keening cry
I ran right up to my bed
and fumbled with the light.

I bring to you now
the same message
as I have
a hundred times before
I'm rearranging the letters
to make my message clearer,
stronger,
more defined
I yearn to let you
know my passion
in its highest form
But I pray that you would
silence me before
my words ever become
played-out lines
which
are merely disregarded;
lost in the static
of everyday conversation
Just as candy should never
become the main course
to a meal
I hope that my declaration
of love for you
does not fade into
some tainted idea
of a casual
modern affair

Terrorism, the Border Collie, nipping upon heels
Menacing the sheep into pens for slaughter
Enemies well fed, by a ruler, falsely beckoning; steals
Legitimacy, sly smiling; he only wishes simply for order
However chaos, is a tool which they remove those
Who stand in their paths toward dominations

both cases we have
a lot of catching up to do
from the summer of our youth
of carefree days of no restrain.

We have all moved on
through the years
sometimes clouded with sorrow and pain.
But now looking forward to
rekindling old sparks again.

They say the future is
not ours to know,
sometimes it is better that way
so that whatever is around the corner
can sometimes come as a happy surprise.

Clouds lining the sky, covering rays of the sun while
we sit in anticipation of another beautiful day.

Watching, seeing clouds instead becoming darker, a
storm suddenly brewing, taking us all by surprise.

Loving the rain, we sit and watch in the face of all
the odds, hoping to see sunlight before evening star-
light taints the sky with an ebony darkness.

There will be an evermore craving to write,
Cause life will never transform its addiction to cast surprise,
I have attained a prolonged quest in disguise,
Then burned out and fell to write.

Though intensity in my words scantly describe,
The injuries of my heart and anguish in my eyes,
Despite they comfort the soul inside,
deserted me with suspicions that constantly arise.

Situations endlessly twist and terrorise,
Like sound fluctuates and turn to cries,
Similar is played the game of life,
From birth it starts and charge till one dies.


The expense it puts on each every smile,
And imposes you on every breath you stride,
A daring venture that takes its price,
Its a world so strange and stranger those reside.

Once, when I walked in a Woodland Glade,
I saw such a funny man, sat in the shade,
with a coat of blue, and hat of green,
his trousers were red as ever I’d seen,
Black, high-legged boots, shone like the sun.
whilst his eyes had a look, that was full of fun,
The hair was of copper, just touched with gold,
yet his beard was white, looking ever so old.
His hands were so tiny, fingers so small.
But then, you see, he was just two feet tall.

This story my seem much taller to you,
but how can YOU say that it isn’t true?

Have you ever walked in a woodland glade,
never wondered what it was you saw, in the shade?
It was there for a moment, then it had fled,
Was it a green hat, or copper gold head?
You have to be quiet, as still as can be,
if forest bred creatures, you desire to see,
for only those eyes which are quick and bright,
are able to see such a wonderful sight.

YOU, pause for a moment when next you are there,
take time in the woodland, to stop and to stare,
and, if not my little man, something as nice,
you will see in the wood, if you’re quiet, like mice

An unconditional love has me by the heart, not wanting
to let it go, filling me explicitly.

Only feelings of truth giving an energy, wanting to be
with him, living a vibrant and tantalizing life, en-
joying the total beauty of love inside my being.

Giving me hope and faith, having come into my life so
quietly and silently, taking me by surprise, wondering
at the immensity of what has happened.

Embracing it with complete and utter humility, love
holding me closely, unconditionally forever on a
transcendental level of the Divine.

She told me about a surprise,
I didn’t consider it unwise,
To ask about it finally,
But she dealt with it in a way, sneaky!

I have no idea what is there for me,
I’ll get the awaited reward maybe,
Perhaps something unexpected is coming,
Something awfully special, something amazing!

Waiting on and on for that certain day,
When the mystery’ll perish as darkness succumbs to ray!

A SURPRISE
BY SADDAM HUSEN

Evening time;
Tea time with her,
Suddenly rain interrupted
Small drops start falling from sky
It was bonus for her
She likes rain very much
She looked at me as I was denied
But I know it very well.

I murmur softly in her ear;
‘It is for you, go for it.'

She happily ran out
First she took some drops on her palm
Then she felt it on her face
With close eyes; she was making them special
Drops were rolling down slowly
Started from her face then neck, then down and down.

But it was surprise
When she looked other place
All the other court-road was dried.

On that dark night I met him.
He told me that
the water was chasing his dog.
I was not happy at his demonic remark
and said to him angrily that
the trees stopped flirting with his leaves.
He looked sad, cried and said to me that
the sun was chasing the moon
and the sky was still sleeping.
I frowned and told him seriously that
his bathroom was eating up the toilet.
He gazed into the air and said to me that
his feet were kicking the stars
and the comets stopped their fires.
I shivered and came to realize
our end time was coming.

Surprises..
Surprise more
when comes form an unknown
Surprise in gifts
Surprise in words
Surprise in weather
Surprise in feelings
Surprise in acts is but
the most fascinating of all
Let me make a great surprise happen
Smile with an heart open
See the world as a bright den

The Surprise Prophet

Like the prophets of old he stands unrepentant, challenging
Hair long and listless, eyes bulging and intense, but also that smile
The charge is your facetious, the challenge, who gave you the right?
Unlike the establishment figure, there is no denial, I take that right.
Facetious, why not, he disarms his interrogator, by not playing the game.
He elicits from the questioner his tacit agreement of much he is saying,
Challenges with the question, Are you saying there are no alternatives
We watch enthralled as this cracked and sometime broken human spokesman
Rails at injustice to the poor, corruption of the bankers, indifference of politicians,
Speaks with passion and commitment and conviction that change must come.
Is he the spokesman of choice? No, yet he falls into the category of Prophet
Those individuals called with a purpose often from the margins, odd balls.
So I question myself, does the messenger negate the message, hardly.
So Russell Brand, I find myself saluting you, for your words, your vision
Your care and thought for the poor and oppressed, those on the outside,
I caution you as well to remember another prophetic voice, that wrote,
Of the problem of humanity, don't forget Orwell's Farm, or his pigs.

Late teens - hormones rage

Protection is neglected

Oops - pregnancy

We need to fear from close friends
If their intention is known till end
They can stab you from back
And claim their stake

The sweet words influence
We trust at once
Fall in trap
And finally raped

Such incidences do occur
Due to judgmental error
When we fail to identify
With proof to satisfy

General known people stab
Take advantage from back
Bring in surprise element
By remaining invisibly present

Be alert and keep vigil
When trying to adjust and fill
It is important to think twice
Before receiving assault in form of surprise

In the dark I walk my last walk,
Death holding me telling me he wants to talk.
My heart beating slowly in pain,
Body just asking to be sain.
Praying to someone who will hear,
What I got was a whisper in my ear.
Telling me my life wasn’t going to end,
But had a special angel to send.
Falling on my knees I started to cry,
Screaming and begging to just die.
Thinking I will have my last breath,
She came and took me away from death.
Her hands filling in what was lost,
Which came with no pain, sacrifice, or cost.
Her eyes telling me I was protected,
Promising me I will no longer feel rejected.
Happiness and fulfillment is now mine,
Which can be anyone’s in the giving of time.

You have only been solicited,
To assist in their progess...
And for their benefit.
When that is done,
You are kicked to the curb...
Like everyone who has come.
To discover they are not the only ones.

Don't think to them you are special!
You should have known that,
As a fact before you arrived.
Don't look to them to keep that vision rising.
If you do...
You are in for quite a surprise.
This is about 'them'!
Not about you in their eyes!

Kind, Loving, Sweetheart
I've always cared, right from the start
Strong-willed, truthful dear
I won't hurt you, you have nothing to fear
One door shut, another open
Hand in hand we walk together both broken
Both broken but together we are healed
Only in fairytales could this be real
I've counted the day to see you wonderful face
I've counted the nights to feel your warm embrace
As the day comes closer I'm nothing but elated
Because I know how much I care for you will never be jaded

If there’s one thing I’d wish for when I die
Then it is to be taken by a great surprise
I’ve traveled to many peculiar places before
I hope death would give me something more

I want to lie down on the floor
And sleep like I’ve never slept before
And pretend like there’s no ceiling above
And dream of things I’ve never dreamt of

And write them down, like I always do
The things that I’ve struggled to pursuit
Oh, the things that I couldn’t quiet visualize
But the things that had took me by surprise

Oh, I am one with the evening sky
We’re both dreaming of you tonight
Falling from the edge as long as we’re alive
Hoping that you’d catch us here by surprise

Every night, we die a little inside
Every night, we die a little inside
We die a little inside as long as we’re alive
Hoping that you’d catch us here by surprise

It is an age of advancement with many surprises
Combination of efforts and success too comprises
What do we benefit out of it is anybody’s guess?
So much uph


If I am immersed in work in my room
When you arrive, Death, Death, then break
My work, thrust my unreadiness aside.
If I am sleeping, sinking all desires
In the dreamy pleasure of my bed, or I lie
With apathy gripping my heart and my eyes
Flickering between sleep and waking, fill
Your conch with your destructive breath and blow,
Death, Death, and I shall run to you.

I shall go to where your boat is moored,
Death, Death, to the sea where the wind rolls
Darkness towards me from infinity.
I may see black clouds massing in the far
North-east corner of the sky; fiery snakes
Of lightning may rear up with their hoods raised,
But I shall not flinch in unfounded fear -
I shall pass silently, unswervingly
Across that red storm-sea, Death, Death.

Broken Song
Kasinath the new young singer fills the hall with sound:
The seven notes dance in his throat like seven tame birds.
His voice is a sharp sword slicing and thrusting everywhere,
It darts like lightening - no knowing where it will go when.
He sets deadly traps for himself, then cuts them away:
The courtiers listen in amazement, give frequent gasps of praise.
Only the old king Pratap Ray sits like wood, unmoved.
Haraj Lal is the only singer he likes, all others leave him cold.
From childhood he has spent so long listening to him sing -
Rag Kafi during holi, cloud-songs during the rains,
Songs for Durga at dawn in autumn, songs to bid her farewell -
His heart swelled when he heard them and his eyes swam with tears.
And on days when friends gathered and filled the hall
There were cowherds' songs of Krsna, in raags Bhupali and Multan.

So many nights of wedding-festivity have passed in that royal house:
Servants dressed in red, hundreds of lamps alight:
The bridegroom sitting shyly in his finery and jewels,
Young friends teasing him and whispering in his ear:
Before him, singing raag Sahana, sits Baraj Lal.
The king's heart is full of all those days and songs.
When he hears some other singer, he feels no chord inside,
No sudden magical awakening of memories of the past.
When Pratap Ray watches Kasinath he just sees his wagging head:
Tune after tune after tune, bu none with any echo in the heart.

Kasinath asks for a rest and the singing stops for a space.
Pratap Ray smilingly turns his eyes to Baraj Lal.
He puts his mouth to his ear and says, 'Dear ustad,
Give us a song as songs ought to be, this is no song at all.
It's all tricks and games, like a cat hunting a bird.
We used to hear songs in the old days, today they have no idea.'

Old Baraj Lal, white-haired, white turban on his head,
Bows to the assembled courtiers and slowly takes his seat.
He takes the tanpura in his wasted, heavily veined hand
And with lowered head and closed eyes begins raag Yaman-kalyap.
His quavering voice is swallowed by the enormous hall,
Is like a tiny bird in a storm, unable to fly for all it tries.
Pratap Ray, sitting to the left, encourages him again and again:
'Superb, bravo!' he says in his ear, 'sing out loud.'

The courtiers are inattentive, some whisper amongst themselves,
Some of them yawn, some doze, some go off to their rooms;
Some of them call to servants, 'Bring the bookah, bring some pan.'
Some fan themselves furiously and complain of the heat.
They cannot keep still for a minute, they shuffle or walk about -
The hall was quiet before, but every sort of noise has grown.
The old man's singing is swamped, like a frail boat in a typhoon:
Only his shaky fingering of the tanpura shows it is there.

Music that should rise on its own joy from the depths of the heart
Is crushed by heedless clamour, like a fountain under a stone.
The song and Baraj Lal's feelings go separate ways,
But he sings for all he is worth, to keep up the honour of his king.

One of the verses of the song has somehow slipped from his mind.
He quickly goes back, tries to get it right this time.
Again he forgets, it is lost, he shakes his head at the shame;
He starts the song at the beginning - again he has to stop.
His hand trembles doubly as he prays to his teachers name.
His voice quakes with distress, like a lamp guttering in a breeze.
He abandons the words of the song and tries to salvage the tune,
But suddenly his wide-mouthed singing breaks into loud cries.
The intricate melody goes to the winds, the rhythm is swept away -
Tears snap the thread of the song, cascade like pearls.
In shame he rests his head on the old tanpura in his lap -
He has failed to remember a song:  he weeps as he did as a child.
With brimming eyes king Pratap Ray tenderly touches his friend:
'Come, let us go from here,' he says with kindness and love.
They leave that festive hall with its hundreds of blinding lights.
The two old friends go outside, holding each other's hands.

Baraj says with hands clasped, 'Master, our days are gone.
New men have come now, new styles and customs in the world.
The court we kept is deserted - only the two of us are left.
Don't ask anyone to listen to me now, I beg you at your feet, my lord.
The singer along does not make a song, there has to be someone who hears:
One man opens his throat to sing, the other sings in his mind.
Only when waves fall on the shore do they make a harmonious sound;
Only when breezes shake the woods do we hear a rustling in the leaves.
Only from a marriage of two forces does music arise in the world.
Where there is no love, where listeners are dumb, there never can be song.'

The Golden Boat

Clouds rumbling in the sky; teeming rain.
I sit on the river bank, sad and alone.
The sheaves lie gathered, harvest has ended,
The river is swollen and fierce in its flow.
As we cut the paddy it started to rain. 

One small paddy-field, no one but me -
Flood-waters twisting and swirling everywhere.
Trees on the far bank; smear shadows like ink
On a village painted on deep morning grey.
On this side a paddy-field, no one but me. 

Who is this, steering close to the shore
Singing? I feel that she is someone I know.
The sails are filled wide, she gazes ahead,
Waves break helplessly against the boat each side.
I watch and feel I have seen her face before. 

Oh to what foreign land do you sail?
Come to the bank and moor your boat for a while.
Go where you want to, give where you care to,
But come to the bank a moment, show your smile -
Take away my golden paddy when you sail. 

Take it, take as much as you can load.
Is there more? No, none, I have put it aboard.
My intense labour here by the river -
I have parted with it all, layer upon layer;
Now take me as well, be kind, take me aboard. 

No room, no room, the boat is too small.
Loaded with my gold paddy, the boat is full.
Across the rain-sky clouds heave to and fro,
On the bare river-bank, I remain alone -
What had has gone: the golden boat took all.

At The Last Watch

Pity, in place of love,
    That pettiest of gifts,
Is but a sugar-coating over neglect.
    Any passerby can make a gift of it
        To a street beggar,
Only to forget the moment the first corner is turned.
        I had not hoped for anything more that day.

You left during the last watch of night.
    I had hoped you would say goodbye,
          Just say 'Adieu' before going away,
    What you had said another day,
              What I shall never hear again.
                In their place, just that one word,
Bound by the thin fabric of a little compassion
          Would even that have been too much for you to bear?

          When I first awoke from sleep
                    My heart fluttered with fear
            Lest the time had been over.
              I rushed out of bed.
      The distant church clock chimed half past twelve
              I sat waiting near the door of my room
                  Resting my head against it,
    Facing the porch through which you would come out.

Even that tiniest of chances
  Was snatched away by fate from hapless me;
  I fell asleep
        Shortly before you left.
Perhaps you cast a sidelong glance
            At my reclining body
    Like a broken boat left high and dry.
  Perhaps you walked away with care
            Lest you wake me up.
  Awaking with a start I knew at once
            That my vigil had been wasted
  I realised, what was to go went away in a moment,
        What was to stay behind stayed on
            For all time.

Silence everywhere
  Like that of a birds' nest bereft of birds
        On the bough of a songless tree.
With the lifeless light of the waning moon was now blended
        The pallor of dawn
  Spreading itself over the greyness of my empty life.
                  I walked towards your bedroom
                                    For no reason.
                      Outside the door
              Burnt a smoky lantern covered with soot,
            The porch smelt of the smouldering wick.
Over the abandoned bed the flaps of the rolled-up mosquito-net
                    Fluttered a little in the breeze.
            Seen in the sky outside through the window
                        Was the morning star,
                    Witness of all sleepless people
                        Bereft of hope.

Suddenly I found you had left behind by mistake
Your gold-mounted ivory walking stick.
      If there were time, I thought,
      You might come back from the station to look for it,
      But not because
  You had not seen me before going away.

Hard Times

Music is silenced, the dark descending slowly
Has stripped unending skies of all companions.
Weariness



i love to watch your face,
...angry with love.
your talons wrapped in feathers....

your spread your wings,
call your chickies home!
you stamp your feet,

eyes wrinkled with loving's cost.
your voice soft and firm demands
that your love returns again.....

for a moment forgetting,
all the lies that darkness sold you,
and your passion finds your heart

as if it never left!







Fingertips bleed
as they trace blood,
around fragile flesh,
and claw their way,
upon a Crimson body.
Angry thrusts of passion,
and kisses,
slapped upon heated limbs,
bites of raw desire,
the pain, and hurt,
surfaces as does,
this bruise.

This sex is angry....
yet I was not the one to aggravate it.








Anger is not always bad
Specially when it is for the truth
If truth is wounded,
Humanity is wounded
So the truth should be brought forward
Even at the cost of tranquility and non-violence
With anger or violence
When all the alternatives of peace are ceased
For the truth cannot be held so long
Else falsehood will take it over
Though it is bound to perish by nature
Yet might do a cosiderable damage
Before being uprooted.







the thin, tall man, is looking for those words,
that he must garnish on his short story on the making,
for he leaves poetry for the moment falling short of metaphors,
he seeks advice from me, whom he thinks is taller, and thinner,
and already at home with the words that he thinks i have chosen so well,
but i without hesitation tells him
pointblank, like killing him with those empty bullets,
that he must not believe me, as i am only inventing myself, recreating
every part of me from a long time immersion of a drowning experience,
lucky, i have not died, and on fortitude, i have learned the art of breathing
through my mouth, my nostrils uncooperative to this endeavor of living,

it is the experience that reinvents us,
redefining our borders, sorting out those conflicts unsolved by wars,
not living in peace most of those times,
the struggles keep coming,
and describing those words with bloody bodies lying on the road
deserted, and feeling all completely abandoned,

i ask him if he sees those poems naked and dead
those short stories buried and without titles yet.

he is blind because of the money,
he is lost, because he is trying to satisfy his own hunger and thirst.

and so, there he is, without poems, strapped of sentences to start
his short story: the journey is canceled.







We all have times, when we get very angry,
but it's hard, for some of us to let go! The
anger keeps on building up, it's impossible
to hide it, it's bound to show! When people
keep after each other and refuse to listen,
that indeed, makes matters harder to take
and the anger, will go on! Someone, has to
make the first move, so you can deal with
it, so all this pent up anger, can be gone!
It's not good to stay angry, as it can be
detrimental to your health, you have to talk
things over and iron your differences out.
It's good, when you can admit, when you're
wrong, certainly better, than hearing one
shout. We all have our discrepancies, but
we have to respect each others feelings,
from the start and never, overstep, that line!
Own up to some of the mistakes you've made,
be honest with yourself, then everything could,
be sublime!







T..........errible
S...........uffering
U...........nanimously
N............ature
A.............grees
M.............utual
I...............nterest!

When this experimental Man
Digs & digs
Day & night
To get golden water,
The bachelor Sorcerer too
Helpless of the powers that shows
This mysterious ball at random!

*Poor innocents compensate with their precious lives and what is this unfair Dogma?






I remember
froth foaming stinging soul.
I was wild
tormented marble man.

Everywhere consumed despair I made
midnight syringe stand.
I stood sinking with beerglass
draining helpless hand.

With greedy gulping shots swallowing
black Coruba gold
chased charger down sinking lucidless life
sourgrapes sold.


With mega music blasting blown
through vibrating electric ear
drowned daily rhythm rational sober youth
couldn’t contending bear.

In dead dark night no saintly
shining light anywhere.
Shitty sober life leeching then now
soiled insolvent fear.

Crippled insurgent years slip sluggishly
saturated seep away.
Misty maimed memories then now
vomited unswallowed stay.







hold my fire on your sweet memory embraced,
and Find calmness of the chill winter be the reason
to blew its volcanic chew of hatred not on my heart
show me all the rainbow my dear heart the glory
of your vow, the circle of the golden thread gallops
the loving care of promise in the altar of yesteryears,
where the seagull have conquer the surfing sky of joy

touch me not the thorn that wounded the after mark
of the suffering of Christ in the cross and wish the
pain that glorify the crossroad of wisdom of life, until
the fulfillment of what is been adore be part of this
driven life

dismay yet, not falling in the pedestal of the level of
respect, where each have come the wonder of what
makes things easy to remember of wrong that is done,
neither the truth welcome the pain that is endure, for
what is given, be given back with full garnet of gift

cloth my destiny and be blessed forever, leave not
the arrow falls the rainbow of hope with the stigma of
death in eternity






It is a pleasure to emit one’s anger.
It is a pleasure to emit one’s bladder.
Both must have a toilet for the outlet.
Else they will burst and spoil and soil.







a boy sits
behind the angry sea

the artist captures
such anger

it's like a peacock
white
its feathers spreading
behind
the fears of the boy

it is indeed
an anger so beautiful

and unless you see it
then you
can understand...







That's what she said...
'The flies are angry'
I figured she ought to know
Given the fact
That she had likely
Been through this routine
Several times over

I'm not certain that
I would want her job...
The taking of fingerprints
From the dead...
The photographing
Of crime scenes...
The processing
Of every unforgettable detail...

No...my job tends to lie
More so with the living
(although not always)
I help people...
Sometimes...and of course...
Sometimes...
I can't

I deal with those left behind
As well as those who have
Gone beyond...
Our realm

So...
Cutting down a young man
Who had just had too much of life...
That was nothing new for me...
But I had never had to deal
With angry flies before!







If you're angry at someone with just
cause, don't keep it inside. Say what
you feel like saying, forget about your
pride. Confront them with your feelings,
let them know what's on your mind. By
doing this, it's much healthier you'll
find. Getting it out in the open, is better
then holding a grudge. Unfortunately,
some will not listen and will refuse to
budge. Talking it over, is important
for any relationship to grow. If you
don't speak up, then how are they to
know. Being honest, how you feel is
a step in the right direction. It helps
clear the air. Putting you both, on the
right track and then you can take it,
from there!








I come to you with love my Brother
My poetic friend, unlike no other
Pray hear my words, I thee beseech
It’s not my goal to shame ‘n preach

You know to well the worlds changed
Heinous acts from some deranged

Gap widens between East 'n West
It’s time to do what’s right 'n best

No longer can it be about “Us ‘n Them”
No longer can we fear, hate, condemn
Your light skinned sisters and brothers
Are children of our same Earth Mother

Put down your ax 'n sharp sword my friend
Bring this senseless squabbling to an end

Peace,







So here I am again
All alone and lonely
Writing yet another poem
One I'm sure they're all tell me is crappy
A perfect imprefect Ramona diseaster piece
Wasted and useless
Just like me
Angry again

I remember high school days
Ah yes those bitter high school days
When even then I sat all alone and lonely
So damn lonely
Dreaming big dreams
Dying to be the only one who was't smiling and laughing
Angry again

Today I log onto the web
Still there are no friends for me to find
No hands to hold
No happy joyful e-mails to exchange
Nope for me it is clear
For I have been told time and time again
By so very many
Even here I am not wanted nor am I loved
I am just
Angry again

Now I frown
Seeing a mistake I so carelessly made in this prose
I lose all my cool compose
Rip the pages to shreds
Thinking of my soul's dying toture
As later I glue the pieces back together
I long and ache so much sometimes
Wondering just how good death might feel
Frowning once more as I wonder if
Even in Heaven's peaceful embrace
I will still be.....

Angry again

Always so very angry









In my church I am one of the quiet radicals.
One of the three guys who helps make the food run
So the senior women can feed the poor -
No medal there, the poor distract us from our true theologies:
The things that distract from death, or wealth or power
Or countless images on countless screens
I can not count the ways.

Or how about trying to convince
Little old ladies to wear T shirts
To tell the world about our little patch of church?
Or being so strange to think
That that divorcee/teacher
Who loves the church as well as its children
Who serves my family and its family well
Who lives on the edge of financial oblivion
Might just be Jesus
Patching up our crumbling walls.

Only our Lord's body died
Faith has it even his spirit
Occasionally can be found alive and well -
Sometimes, even in a church.








Dear Mr Rundy I could see your anger in your letter
To provoke you this anti gun person ought to have known better
Than to paper commit his thoughts and write what you call drivel
You spat him out in angry words and gave him to the devil.

You say you are close to the ground than many you are smaller
But perhaps with a gun in your hands you feel just that bit taller
For men who hunt with gun and dog think themselves men of action
To watch a wildborn creature die a sense of satisfaction.

You know the Latin names for sambar deer oh my don't you seem clever
And it seems a pity all the same that your name won't live forever
And you show you know how to spell 'something going out of fashion'
And you have got this way with words and you write with a passion.

You'v



Sweet, shut your eyes, 
The wild fire-fiies 
Dance through the fairy neem; 
From the poppy-bole 
For you I stole 
A little lovely dream.


Dear eyes, good-night, 
In golden light 
The stars around you gleam; 
On you I press 
With soft caress 
A little lovely dream. 


Harvest Hymn

Mens Voices:

LORD of the lotus, lord of the harvest, 
Bright and munificent lord of the morn! 
Thine is the bounty that prospered our sowing, 
Thine is the bounty that nurtured our corn. 
We bring thee our songs and our garlands for tribute, 
The gold of our fields and the gold of our fruit; 
O giver of mellowing radiance, we hail thee, 
We praise thee, O Surya, with cymbal and flute.

Lord of the rainbow, lord of the harvest, 
Great and beneficent lord of the main! 
Thine is the mercy that cherished our furrows, 

Thine is the mercy that fostered our grain. 
We bring thee our thanks and our garlands for tribute, 
The wealth of our valleys, new-garnered and ripe; 
O sender of rain and the dewfall, we hail thee, 
We praise thee, Varuna, with cymbal and pipe. 

Womens Voices:

Queen of the gourd-flower, queen of the har- vest, 
Sweet and omnipotent mother, O Earth! 
Thine is the plentiful bosom that feeds us, 
Thine is the womb where our riches have birth. 
We bring thee our love and our garlands for tribute, 
With gifts of thy opulent giving we come; 
O source of our manifold gladness, we hail thee, 
We praise thee, O Prithvi, with cymbal and drum.



All Voices: 

Lord of the Universe, Lord of our being, 
Father eternal, ineffable Om! 
Thou art the Seed and the Scythe of our harvests, 
Thou art our Hands and our Heart and our Home. 
We bring thee our lives and our labours for tribute, 
Grant us thy succour, thy counsel, thy care. 
O Life of all life and all blessing, we hail thee, 
We praise thee, O Bramha, with cymbal and prayer 
In Praise Of Henna

A KOKILA called from a henna-spray: 
Lira! liree! Lira! liree! 
Hasten, maidens, hasten away 
To gather the leaves of the henna-tree. 
Send your pitchers afloat on the tide, 
Gather the leaves ere the dawn be old, 
Grind them in mortars of amber and gold, 
The fresh green leaves of the henna-tree.


A kokila called from a henna-spray: 
Lira! liree! Lira! liree! 
Hasten maidens, hasten away 
To gather the leaves of the henna-tree. 
The tilka's red for the brow of a bride, 
And betel-nut's red for lips that are sweet; 
But, for lily-like fingers and feet, 
The red, the red of the henna-tree. 

Indian Dancer

EYES ravished with rapture, celestially panting, what passionate bosoms aflaming with fire 
Drink deep of the hush of the hyacinth heavens that glimmer around them in fountains of light; 
O wild and entrancing the strain of keen music that cleaveth the stars like a wail of desire, 
And beautiful dancers with houri-like faces bewitch the voluptuous watches of night.


The scents of red roses and sandalwood flutter and die in the maze of their gem-tangled hair, 
And smiles are entwining like magical serpents the poppies of lips that are opiate-sweet; 
Their glittering garments of purple are burning like tremulous dawns in the quivering air, 
And exquisite, subtle and slow are the tinkle and tread of their rhythmical, slumber-soft feet.


Now silent, now singing and swaying and swinging, like blossoms that bend to the breezes or showers, 
Now wantonly winding, they flash, now they falter, and, lingering, languish in radiant choir; 
Their jewel-girt arms and warm, wavering, lily-long fingers enchant through melodious hours, 
Eyes ravished with rapture, celestially panting, what passionate bosoms aflaming with fire! 


Leili

The serpents are asleep among the poppies, 
The fireflies light the soundless panther's way 
To tangled paths where shy gazelles are straying, 
And parrot-plumes outshine the dying day. 
O soft! the lotus-buds upon the stream 
Are stirring like sweet maidens when they dream. 


A caste-mark on the azure brows of Heaven, 
The golden moon burns sacred, solemn, bright 
The winds are dancing in the forest-temple, 
And swooning at the holy feet of Night. 
Hush! in the silence mystic voices sing 
And make the gods their incense-offering. 
Nightfall In The City Of Hyderabad

SEE how the speckled sky burns like a pigeon's throat, 
Jewelled with embers of opal and peridote. 


See the white river that flashes and scintillates, 
Curved like a tusk from the mouth of the city-gates. 


Hark, from the minaret, how the muezzin's call 
Floats like a battle-flag over the city wall. 


From trellised balconies, languid and luminous 
Faces gleam, veiled in a splendour voluminous. 


Leisurely elephants wind through the winding lanes, 
Swinging their silver bells hung from their silver chains. 


Round the high Char Minar sounds of gay cavalcades 
Blend with the music of cymbals and serenades. 


Over the city bridge Night comes majestical, 
Borne like a queen to a sumptuous festival. 

Song Of A Dream

ONCE in the dream of a night I stood 
Lone in the light of a magical wood, 
Soul-deep in visions that poppy-like sprang; 
And spirits of Truth were the birds that sang, 
And spirits of Love were the stars that glowed, 
And spirits of Peace were the streams that flowed 
In that magical wood in the land of sleep.


Lone in the light of that magical grove, 
I felt the stars of the spirits of Love 
Gather and gleam round my delicate youth, 
And I heard the song of the spirits of Truth; 
To quench my longing I bent me low 
By the streams of the spirits of Peace that flow 
In that magical wood in the land of sleep. 

The Bangle Sellers

Bangle sellers are we who bear
Our shining loads to the temple fair...
Who will buy these delicate, bright
Rainbow-tinted circles of light?
Lustrous tokens of radiant lives,
For happy daughters and happy wives.

Some are meet for a maiden's wrist,
Silver and blue as the mountain mist,
Some are flushed like the buds that dream
On the tranquil brow of a woodland stream,
Some are aglow wth the bloom that cleaves
To the limpid glory of new born leaves

Some are like fields of sunlit corn,
Meet for a bride on her bridal morn,
Some, like the flame of her marriage fire,
Or, rich with the hue of her heart's desire,
Tinkling, luminous, tender, and clear,
Like her bridal laughter and bridal tear.

Some are purple and gold flecked grey
For she who has journeyed through life midway,
Whose hands have cherished, whose love has blest,
And cradled fair sons on her faithful breast,
And serves her household in fruitful pride,
And worships the gods at her husband's side. 


The Queen's Rival

QUEEN GULNAAR sat on her ivory bed, 
Around her countless treasures were spread; 

Her chamber walls were richly inlaid 
With agate, porphory, onyx and jade; 

The tissues that veiled her delicate breast, 
Glowed with the hues of a lapwing's crest; 

But still she gazed in her mirror and sighed 
O King, my heart is unsatisfied. 

King Feroz bent from his ebony seat: 
Is thy least desire unfulfilled, O Sweet? 

Let thy mouth speak and my life be spent 
To clear the sky of thy discontent. 

I tire of my beauty, I tire of this 
Empty splendour and shadowless bliss; 

With none to envy and none gainsay, 
No savour or salt hath my dream or day. 

Queen Gulnaar sighed like a murmuring rose: 
Give me a rival, O King Feroz. 

II

King Feroz spoke to his Chief Vizier: 
Lo! ere to-morrow's dawn be here, 

Send forth my messengers over the sea, 
To seek seven beautiful brides for me; 

Radiant of feature and regal of mien, 
Seven handmaids meet for the Persian Queen. 
. . . . . 

Seven new moon tides at the Vesper call, 
King Feroz led to Queen Gulnaar's hall 

A young queen eyed like the morning star: 
I bring thee a rival, O Queen Gulnaar. 

But still she gazed in her mirror and sighed: 
O King, my heart is unsatisfied. 

Seven queens shone round her ivory bed, 
Like seven soft gems on a silken thread, 

Like seven fair lamps in a royal tower, 
Like seven bright petals of Beauty's flower 

Queen Gulnaar sighed like a murmuring rose 
Where is my rival, O King Feroz? 

III

When spring winds wakened the mountain floods, 
And kindled the flame of the tulip buds,

When bees grew loud and the days grew long, 
And the peach groves thrilled to the oriole's song, 

Queen Gulnaar sat on her ivory bed, 
Decking with jewels her exquisite head; 

And still she gazed in her mirror and sighed: 
O King, my heart is unsatisfied. 

Queen Gulnsar's daughter two spring times old, 
In blue robes bordered with tassels of gold, 

Ran to her knee like a wildwood fay, 
And plucked from her hand the mirror away.

Quickly she set on her own light curls 
Her mother's fillet with fringes of pearls;

Quickly she turned with a child's caprice 
And pressed on the mirror a swift, glad kiss. 

Queen Gulnaar laughed like a tremulous rose: 
Here is my rival, O King Feroz. 


The Song Of Princess Zeb-Un-Nissa In Praise Of Her Own Beauty

WHEN from my cheek I lift my veil, 
The roses turn with envy pale, 
And from their pierced hearts, rich with pain, 
Send forth their fragrance like a wail. 


Or if perchance one perfumed tress 
Be lowered to the wind's caress, 
The honeyed hyacinths complain, 
And languish in a sweet distress. 


And, when I pause, still groves among, 
Such loveliness is mine a throng 
Of nightingales awake and strain 
Their souls into a quivering song. 
To My Fairy Fancies

NAY, no longer I may hold you, 
In my spirit's soft caresses, 
Nor like lotus-leaves enfold you 
In the tangles of my tresses. 
Fairy fancies, fly away 
To the white cloud-wildernesses, 
Fly away!


Nay, no longer ye may linger 
With your laughter-lighted faces, 
Now I am a thought-worn singer 
In life's high and lonely places. 
Fairy fancies, fly away, 
To bright wind-inwoven spaces, 
Fly away! 
So Says the Boss 

I'm the boss
You do not cross
The king of my domain
For the day
No work, all play
Is found in my refrain

Love to eat
The prime of meat
So sad 'til I get some
'Tis so sweet
And such a treat
Boy, they can be so dumb

Hate to dress
Give me caress
No bother with the slime
Have to dig
In it real big
Archaeology time

When I'm beat
I have a seat
Take my favorite spot
No compete
It's so complete
Out of my royal cot! 

Here to stay
I love to lay
Napping is not a farse
I'm a dog
Who's a couch hog
So move your big fat arse!

Let get laughter way out of yourself  


Let get laughter way out of yourself 
Make the happy sound awake 
Laughter magic and enchanting 
Don't sustain it in your soul 
Let yourself go into joy 
May it help forever 
People from wherever 
Getting circled together 
Laughter can be a kind of help 
A worthy enemy to distress 
Rise this laughter so dear 
To be heard by human ears 
Make it go on around the world 
Little chuckles happy giggles 
So many ways of laughing 
Don't fear the others comment 
Let laughter way out of yourself 
Be assured laughter is magic 
Open your heart to this very 
Very special kind of sound 
Let get laughter way out of yourself
Make the happy sound awake 



LAUGHTER - LAUGHTER

laughter - laughter here I come
to make my friend smile and calm
jump and jump to the left to the right
thru the day time and night

laughter - laughter here I am
to make true all the sweetest dreams
like my friend always has in sleep
thru the very beautiful night 
that will never skip

laughter - laughter here we are
my friend and I are blab - blab - blab
and we are happy and careless
cause the better future are waiting for us

laughter - laughter, who are you? 
WHAT! you don't recognize me? 
I am sorry, I thought I know you 
but just let it be
because a real friendship doesn't care who we are





Giggles, Laughter and Stabbing Stares  


Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
It would kill them to be nice, 
It would hurt them to be kind, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
The notes are being passed around, 
They don’t see, no one cares, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
Tearing at all I’ve built up, 
But it won’t work anymore, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
What they don’t know is, 
I just don’t care, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
Every one is doing it, 
But I just sit and laugh, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
It’s so funny they think I care, 
They are stupid to think I do, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares, 
I laugh and laugh
Because they don’t see that no one cares, 

Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares…
Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares…
Giggles, laughter and stabbing stares… 




A Child's Laughter  

One of a kind this cheerful sound
A child's laughter wherever it's found
From the giggling of a baby in a playpen
To the laughter of a toddler again and again

A child's laughter can bring a smile
To one who hasn't done so in such a long while
I know because that one was me
Until my daughter's laugh set mine free

A child's laughter so gleeful and pure
An innocence adults miss for sure
Laughter that can bring back the past
And memories of a youth that flew by so fast

A child's laughter can bring out the best
Of most any man when he's depressed
Cause his spirit that's fall to soar
Until at last he laughs once more 



Love, Laughter, And You  

Three things that make my life complete
Are love, laughter, and you, my sweet
The laughter has lasted since day one
Loving you darling, has been so much fun

Whether it's giggles at the kitchen table
Or all out laughter wherever we're able
Each and every laugh, a symbol of our love
You're my everything, all I ever dreamt of

Our love, now that's a bit more serious
Shining through when our laughter is delirious
Starting the day with love's tenderness
Saying goodnight with a sweet caress

Love, laughter, and of course you.
You bring into my life the other two
From the day we met, and for every single day
Love and laughter in our lives will stay 


Live with Laughter  

</>So much time passess
We have moments of saddness
At other times it seems like we are passed depressed
One thing will keep us together

Its the sound of joy
Laughter from a little kid 
The sound of there high pitch laughter 
The laughter at every new thing they see

Laughter makes our day better
Laughter makes our life worth living
Nothing can make you


Make me a promise you can’t keep
I’m the kind of girl that will listen to any lie
And I’ll pretend it came true till the day I die
I am insecure about my existence
And your touch makes me feel real
I am so afraid of being alone
That I’ll be beaten just not have to face my fear
I’ve been pushed down, stepped on, hurt
And the look you give me is emotionless
You want so much more
I’ve never been one to plead but, you want me on my knees
And to satisfy you I will fulfill you childish needs
To never be left alone I will become weak
To hold your hand, to be you one and only
But, this bed is used for more than just me
I was taught to bit my tongue
I’ve actually made it bleed
I was taught to hang my head
As if I were less of a person
Like you the “man” own me
I have seen lovely women ripped apart
Shattered face but, it matches their heart
I don’t have courage I don’t ask for anything
I am the lost soul but, next to you I’m nothing
I have never been beautiful it’s just a word,
Used to once describe me
When I’m on the floor crying
What do you really see?
Do you see a woman or,
Do you even see me as a human being?
You can’t ever say sorry
I hate when you don’t say what you mean
You can’t ever apologize because in the end it just me
I’ll always be less its just the way it’s destined to be
I will always be looked down upon
Never looked at
I am really alone
But, without you there really would have never been
My broken body
Never would have been a tearful face
Never would have been this broken…
Once “beautiful” sad disgrace
So I owe you everything that caused me my deep rooted pain
But, fear won’t let me ever break way.

Men of America in a foreign land.
Marching along, black rifle in hand.
Some came for a thrill.
Others sent, against their will.
Sent there to crush the red.
To make every single commie, dead.
Shipped off without a plan.
To Massacre their fellow man.
Pawns in a darn fools game.
Left to burn, to take the blame.
Even those, whose hearts still flow.
Have nought but sorrow to show.

Even though there's peace there now, is the lesson learnt?
Will there ever be happiness? , for those whose souls were burnt.
Fishers buried the moon in the waves of the sea,
a sailor perceived the Great Bear
with his magic small telescope.

In the black tar,
man with the white locks,
with shoulders burdened by the canopy of heaven
and plunged in crystal dreams, lives.

The high flight of the eagle measures
the greatness of the yellow flowers and the extent of the




The problem facing many men
and women, even nations,
when suffering is that that is when
they most require patience,
but nations, men and women, too,
too often find it rougher
to take a cool and patient view
than patiently and calm to suffer,
for everyone, yes, even nations,
must sometimes tough it out
and has to learn that no impatience
can put deep grief to rout.
Indeed, the whole world should remember,
impatience rarely pays;
fall comes when it will come, September
relieves hot summer days,
and spring will follow winter’s storm
with patience, when surprise,
the welcome element, will warm
the patient heart and eyes.

His face was the face of an angel
A bear angel at least I can say
Big paws to catch fish with
He looked quite ready for play

But of course, the bears were avoided
By the animals that lived in the barn
Probably some could tell you
Some sort of bear-scary yarn

Badgers of course would never
Spend time with bears for sure
Turkeys are ever so fearful
Bears they could never endure

But bear country Is a place I have seen
Bears just as cute as could be
I saw a baby bear climb up
To the top of a very small tree

I just love everything about them
Although you surely must be wise
For they are still wild animals
And you don’t need a bear surprise!

It was a surprise to discover…
You took a breath to recover.
Yes, we were expecting an addition.
There seemed to be some opposition.

This is something we can’t afford.
This is a big burden, not a reward.
It will be difficult with smaller portions.
I am asking, will you consider abortion?

As a loving mother, this could not be my choice.
For this life within me, I gave a strong voice.
We will manage somehow. I know it in my heart.
This child is a part of me; it shall not depart.

The child was born; she was a beautiful baby girl.
She makes me proud; she has the luster


Grip my hand
Don’t ever let go,
Just give me one more chance
To let you know,
I didn’t mean what I said
And I never thought you’d be here,
In an hospital bed,
Lying cold, numb, almost dead,
And I can't take it,
Please pull through I know you can make it,
Don’t leave me here
Make me shed this tear
You’re all I’ve got,
Even if I appreciated it or not,
You’ve always been there,
Near or far apart,
Even though I didn’t realize,
You were in my heart,
And I know you’re strong
And to this fate you don’t belong,
I need you here to comfort me,
I need to you to fight,
Don’t shut your eyes,
Don’t fall into the light,
Because if you go, my world will fall apart,
And I’ll have a broken heart,
And now as you lie here I know,
I’ve always needed you,
Right from the very start,
And I’m not letting you go.



The Pain Shows

When I look into your eyes, 
I see the pain you try to hide.
You try to be tough, 
But the pain shows 
The hurting, 
And the suffering that this is causing you
The pain shows
Although you act as if nothing is wrong, 
The pain shows
You try to be brave
But the pain shows
You try to hide the tears
But the pain shows
Who knew looking into your eyes would reveal so much pain



Does My Daddy Love Me?

Does my daddy love me when he doesn't talk to me?
Does my daddy love me when he doesn’t spend time with me?
Does my daddy love me when he doesn't make me feel special?
Does my daddy love me when he doesn’t call me see how I'm doing?
Does my daddy love me when he hasn't been to my birthday in 7 years?
Dose my daddy love me? 
Really? If so, how come he doesn't show it?



I'm A Sad Fairy

She is very beautiful 
one of a kind
she's normal and simple
but she's hard to find
she holds her anger in
but she dreams of fantasy's
she commits many sin's
but seeks a true destiny
she has beautiful long brown hair
she lets it down at night
she's in th



The Tyger

Tyger! Tyger! burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?

In what distant deeps or skies
Burnt the fire of thine eyes?
On what wings dare he aspire?
What the hand dare seize the fire?

And what shoulder, and what art,
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand? and what dread feet?

What the hammer? what the chain?
In what furnace was thy brain?
What the anvil? what dread grasp
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?

When the stars threw down their spears,
And watered heaven with their tears,
Did he smile his work to see?
Did he who made the Lamb make thee?

Tyger! Tyger! burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye,
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?




'Twas the Night Before Christmas 

'Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there;
The children were nestled all snug in their beds;
While visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads;
And mamma in her 'kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter's nap,
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters and threw up the sash.
The moon on the breast of the new-fallen snow,
Gave a lustre of midday to objects below,
When what to my wondering eyes did appear,
But a miniature sleigh and eight tiny rein-deer,
With a little old driver so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment he must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name:
Now, Dasher! now, Dancer! now Prancer and Vixen!
On, Com



Dare you, say up Wenger,
And behold Arsenal FaNs fume in anger,
For when one commentator said Arsene,
To some aggrieved ear, it sounded arson,
And to a disgruntled yoruba ear, asin,
I wondered, his atrocities that much.
Mufu burst-ed: Clichy by another club cliched,
A replacement, the prudent man takes a risk,
Gibbs definately will click.
Now Denilson gone,
One of the few who seldom fire the dusty canon gun,
And what as Mr Wenger done?
The power house, midfielder fabricator of gas, Fabregas,
For Arsenal, seem out of gas,
But Professor holds him still as the citadel of pass,
When many suspect his commitment long past.
Some have said on Mr Wengers hand is a super efficient glue,
And his full diskette need be replaced by a CD ROM,
Experts confessed: the free flowing pattern of play be like maggi, onga,
Will wet any football lover appetite to hunger,
But to shoot, Raphael declared, Nada,
And when they do, bagger
All our Strikers be Van der sars maga.
If there be any bullet left in the gunners canon gun, Bimpe added in anger,
It should be aimed at the wallet of Wenger.

Like fast I drive
Cross my mind frive
market and bomb dives
Come dine champange bubbles
Big slaughter bonus
Expensive life way supples
Banker says politician join us
Gentle man grows angry
Put gold in your sanctuary


Gentle Man
Grows Angry
Nasty tan
Wearing Hugo Boss
Sanctuary of lack luster
Cheap candy floss
Banker smells a buster

Chart says whos gives a toss
Rip the bank
Thank too take a minus
Chart says we have loss
I sit in the sink of the tank
of the select think
I wait for the big boss too blink


'Why strive when nature is bounteous
and all ills can be made right with
wet sweetness? '


'Raiment, ' he writes in his sleepy head,
'of bees and leaves. An old man puts the
best plum in his sleeve to bring home
to his wife.'
to sleep beside the humming gl


"Evil spirits

You are possessed.
Witch doctors believe in phantoms,
that cause your illness. But, driving out devils
can be challenging. Spirits are given away

We are made to sit opposite you,
Force-fed a ‘meal’bland food mixed
with your hair, nails, spit and pus.
Illegally despite the government ban,
We take your hoard of evil spirits
Barter-system: for having ate your food.

And because ghosts and ghouls
obey your rules, they leave you to come to us.
Is this ‘transference’? An unofficial appeasement.
We become inhabited by the dead,
who ruins our doomed lives. Demons in our
bodies are brutal tenants and frequently,

They suck with their vampire tongues
to drink our anemic blood 
leave their puncture marks, which
can be faintly seen on our black skins;
skins that bear greater scars,
reminders of larger, human cruelty. . .

Anyway, there isn’t a lot of life in our bodies.
We are souls. Wandering souls. Still, once
Ghost-tasted, we rot away. We rot away.
Remember, rotting is a long procedure. . .
Day by day, we grow coffin cold and slowly
Life creeps out, a lazy earthworm.
At last, we die.

We die.



"
"
The Rainy Day 

Sullen clouds are gathering fast over the black fringe of the
forest.
O child, do not go out!
The palm trees in a row by the lake are smiting their heads
against the dismal sky; the crows with their dragged wings are
silent on the tamarind branches, and the eastern bank of the river
is haunted by a deepening gloom.
Our cow is lowing loud, ties at the fence.
O child, wait here till I bring her into the stall.
Men have crowded into the flooded field to catch the fishes
as they escape from the overflowing ponds; the rain-water is
running in rills through the narrow lanes like a laughing boy who
has run away from his mother to tease her.
Listen, someone is shouting for the boatman at the ford.
O child, the daylight is dim, and the crossing at the ferry
is closed.
The sky seems to ride fast upon the madly rushing rain; the
water in the river is loud and impatient; women have hastened home
early from the Ganges with their filled pitchers.
The evening lamps must be made ready.
O child, do not go out!
The road to the market is desolate, the lane to the river is
slippery. The wind is roaring and struggling among the bamboo
branches like a wild beast tangled in a net."
"Blood red,

Shing evily,

Silently laughing at my pain.

He enjoys it,

No...He loves it, The pain he makes others feel.

He does not speak,

But I know when I feel his eyes piercing mine, 

He is laughing inside.

I shiver in fear,

When his eyes, 

Come near.

It is true im scared,

Of his eyes and him, 

His eyes tell the things he does not.

His eyes, 

Blood red, 

Tourment me."
"Untamed
Sitting in a corner so scared and afraid,
he's standing there yelling at me,
and he's the one to blame,
Marks across my face,
From where he had hit me,
People always say that I’ve got it easy.
Bruises on my back,
The blood courses through my veins,
In this dark old room,
There is something untamed.
Scared to say a word,
Just one word to come out,
For no one knows what happens when the beast has made his rounds.
People always stare at me,
I now know what they say,
For all these scars left on my wrist,
The past has been revealed.
I do it one last time,
So no blood runs through these veins
"
"Harry, I'm Scared
 
I had always been the odd one out, in this world of people who seemed to be better than me. I could always hope that one day I would be accepted, but now a days, that hope has turned into misery.

I turned to my best friend and I said; Harry, I'm scared, I can't do it, they would hurt me if I said it.

He just looked at me and frowned and said; You need to learn to stand your ground, Teagan, you're a tough girl you're a fighter, who cares about the unwanted fire.

When Harry said unwanted fire, he meant the heated arguments between my parents.

All you need to do is be brave, and you'll be on your way. 

But I'm not brave like you Harry!

You are in your own way.

I went home that night befuddled by what Harry had said, it didn't explain anything, it made no sense in my head.

My mum saw me from outside, and came out shouting about the time of night.

Do you know what time it is? I was so worried. she would say, but it was only an act, I knew she didn't care, she continues to tell me what a waste of space I am, and that she wasted her money when she adopted me.

I don't care. I said, as I walked past her, I aimed for the door, and next thing you know, I get slapped in the face, it stings for awhile and I turn around, to see another frown.

Now listen to me, do as I say, I know what's right, and from this day, you will not stay out late, you will come home early, you are not the type of girl who wanders the street!

Me being the smart arse I am had to reply which earned me another slap and a Punch from behind.

Technically, it is not day, it is night, so your instruction means nothing what so ever, now leave me be!

Now, my story lays in the hands of the sequel of my soul, and even though you're dead now Harry, here's my message to you, Harry, I'm scared, I am sorry, but I cannot be brave, when I'm filled with worry, I know your story, but you don't know mine, but I think it's time I told you, I was adopted, I was raped, and abused, my parents hurt me in so many ways, these memories will stay with me to my dying days, Harry I miss you, I don't know what to do, I know what your would say to me now, you would say; Yep, your screwed.

I love you Harry, you will always be my best friend, no one will ever replace you, you were right, I can be brave, in my own way, by telling this short story of mine, and publishing it for the world to see, I hope your proud of me. xx

"
"Escape

Trees, trees, trees
Branches, sticks, leaves
Whipping, gashing, slashing at my arms
I can't get away no matter how fast I run

Tripping, falling, crawling on the floor
Ragged cuts, tattered clothes, jagged breathing as I start to slow
My eyes are heavy, my vision blurred
Distant images start to stir

He's right behind me, he's catching up
I have to keep moving but my legs have had enough
Getting dizzy about to pass out, a distant figure starts to stand out
A distant scream, a whispered plea, I can't believe it came from me

Pulse is racing, a feeling of hands, a gentle hush as I'm helped to stand
It's him, he's caught me, please strength don't leave me yet
Let me be anything but his sullied pet
I have to leave, I have to get away, I fall to my knees and let my head sway

Stopping he stares at me and gives a mirrored laugh
Then he reaches for me as I start to move back
I'm to slow, he's to fast, I can't get away, he's taking me back
I can't let this happen, I must react

Heads to fuzzy, I'm getting to weak
I'm stumbling over my own feet
One chance, a pull, a twist, a po+A71p and a moan
I'm not the one with a broken bone

I'm still running, he's still coming
My strength's about to give out
Dead end, cliffs end, water and rocks below
Tell me, if you had a choice which way would you go?


"
"Stay Strong

I have this illness
that I've suffered from for so long 
and I don't know how
but I've got to find a way to stay strong, 
I wish I could get over it really quick 
because it's making me go insane 
and it hurts when people pick
It just causes so much pain 
I just wish I could stay strong 
It really bothers me 
because I don't know what's wrong 
I'm telling myself not to cry 
but it's so hard to try 
there's got to be a way for me to stay strong 

As the days go by
I feel worse and worse 
so many things have gone wrong 
and it's just so hard to stay strong
I've got to cry 
so as the tears run down my eyes 
I realized I don't have the strength 
to stay strong


"
"Fear
I'm so tired of all the pain,
Just please let it rain,
So I can hide my tears,
So no one can see my fears,
That are going to keep haunting, 
For the rest of my life,
Just want it all to disappear,
So I don't have to deal with my fears,
Just want it all to go away,
I just hope I can be okay, 
I'm so tired of running,
I'm so sick of hiding,
All my pain is building up,
It all just hurts way too much,
I'm so tired of all the pain,
Just please let it rain,
So I can hide all my tears,
So no one can tell I am full of fear"
"It
I'm running out of breath
I can't believe its so hard to breath
My hearts pounding in my chest 
As I wonder if IT found me
I hide under the covers and pretend I'm invisible
Then I turn around and IT is still there
I scream and pray IT would just go away
I'm running and running but IT is
Right behind me 
I've been running from this thing for 5 years now
I stop running and decide to face my fears
Once and for all
As I stand face to face to what has caused me
So much misery and pain
I stop
I look deeper and deeper into IT's eyes
Than I realize that IT is me
"
"Mirror

I want you to have it all
My soul, my mistakes, my heart,
You have the key to my innermost thoughts
Slowly unlocking every door 
That shades you from me, from what I don't want you to see 
MY TRUE COLORS

Running away from you, from the one who 
relates, listens ,and appreciate me for who 
I AM
Chasing you away from my heart, willing to feel lonely
Just so you wont have a way to hurt me.
Constantly chasing you in circles never knowing were it began
and were it will end

You've unlocked everything, you've seen
my fears, my secrets, my joy,
Only one door left as you open it all you see
is a MIRROR, my biggest fear
facing fear itself, my mistakes
MYSELF"
"Im Sorry For Me
 
We have been friends for about a year,
And this is honestly my worst fear.

I'm scared of our friendship ending,
I think it is, and my heart is mending.

I'm sorry if I did something wrong,
I'm sorry if I wasn't strong.

I'm sorry that our friendship didn't work out,
But most of all, I'm sorry that I gave you doubt.

I didn't mean to be mean at all,
I didn't mean to give you a fall.

I just wanted our friendship to work out,
I didn't want you to scream and shout.

I just fear you're going to be a popular one day,
I fear that and if you do, I'm going to have to pay.

You don't know what it's like to cry yourself to sleep,
And this whole time I've really been hurting underneath.

Anyway, I just hope you see the sky not cloudy but starry,
And all I wanted to say was I'm sorry
"
"I Hate Poems
user img
I try to write a poem,
but poems are too hard
Rhyming is for losers
and airy-fairy bards
 
To put a pen to paper
and write about your life
I've had enough of all of those,
they only cause me strife
 
Free-verse script is awful,
for fools without a beat
Repetition's far too simple
just repeat, repeat, REPEAT
 
Those lovey-dovey ode-things,
that wishy-washy crap
And poems about hatred,
you all deserve a slap
 
Spare me all your ramblings,
I don't care how you feel
Your self-expression surely stinks
of mouldy day-old eel
 
To tell a tale of wonder
never ceases to be trite
To sing of magic wonders
is nothing but pure e
 
Your metaphors are useless,
your imagery is vile
Your sense of diction makes me gag,
I cannot stand your style
 
So save me your quotations,
please spare me all your rhyme
Shove that poem up your rear
and cease to waste my time
 
 
I look at what I've written,
this jumble of clichés
Looks like I wrote a bloody poem
so I'm the one to blame!
"
"Fear Itself Is Undefined
I lay on my bed soaking my pillow with my tears,
I try to remember exactly what it is that I fear.
Is it the passing of time or the love that I lack?
Is it the mistakes that I've made or the fact that I can't bring the past back?
What is it that I'm afraid of? 
Why am I so scared?
Is it the people I've hurt or the people that have hurt me?
Am I afraid of everything that I cant seem to see?
Is it the love of a friend, or the loss of my family?
Is it the possibility that my life can end in a tragedy? 
What is it that I fear most? 
What do my eyes say I'm scared of? 
Is it the sun that sets but won't seem to rise?
Is it the hope that I have that always seems to die?
Is it the trust of a person that I cannot begin to grasp?
Is it all the memories of my horrid past?
Is it me? 
Can it possibly be that the thing I fear most is the thing I can't be? 
The things that I try to understand? 
The me that I try to be with when I'm feeling sad? 
The person I'm expected to be? Is that what I fear? . . . 
I think the thing I fear most . . .is me"
"Last Resort

A plethora of predicaments race in my mind at best, 
which one


Evolution revised

I passed into a lucent still abode
And saw as in a mirror crystalline
An ancient Force ascending serpentine
The unhasting spirals of the aeonic road.

Earth was a cradle for the arriving god
And man but a half-dark half-luminous sign
Of the transition of the veiled Divine
From Matter's sleep and the tormented load

Of ignorant life and death to the Spirit's light.
Mind liberated swam Light's ocean vast,
And life escaped from its grey tortured line;

I saw Matter illumining its parent Night.
The soul could feel into infinity cast
Timeless God-bliss the heart incarnadine.
God

Thou who pervadest all the worlds below,
Yet sitst above,
Master of all who work and rule and know,
Servant of Love!

Thou who disdainest not the worm to be 
Nor even the clod,
Therefore we know by that humility
That thou art God.
Friend 

Art thou abroad on this stormy night 
on thy journey of love, my friend? 
The sky groans like one in despair. 

I have no sleep tonight. 
Ever and again I open my door and look out on 
the darkness, my friend! 

I can see nothing before me. 
I wonder where lies thy path! 

By what dim shore of the ink-black river, 
by what far edge of the frowning forest, 
through what mazy depth of gloom art thou threading 
thy course to come to me, my friend?
The Astronomer 

I only said, When in the evening the round full moon gets
entangled among the beaches of that Dadam tree, couldn't somebody
catch it?
But dada laughed at me and said, Baby, you are the silliest
child I have ever known. The moon is ever so far from us, how could
anybody catch it?
I said, Dada, how foolish you are! When mother looks out of
her window and smiles down at us playing, would you call her far
away?
Still dada said, You are a stupid child! But, baby where
could you find a net big enough to catch the moon with?
I said, Surely you could catch it with your hands.
But dada laughed and said, You are the silliest child I have
known. If it came nearer, you would see how big the moon is.
I said, Dada, what nonsense they teach at your school! When
mother bends her face down to kiss us, does her face look very
big?
But still dada says, You are a stupid child.


The Gardener XIV: I Was Walking by the Road 

I was walking by the road, I do not
know why, when the noonday was past
and bamboo branches rustled in the
wind.
The prone shadows with their out-
stretched arms clung to the feet of
the hurrying light.
The koels were weary of their
songs.
I was walking by the road, I do not 
know why.
The hut by the side of the water is
shaded by an overhanging tree.
Some on was busy with her work,
and her bangles made music in the
corner.
I stood before this hut, I know not
why.
The narrow winding road crosses
many a mustard field, and many a
mango forest.
It passes by the temple of the
village and the market at the river
landing-place.
I stopped by this hut, I do not know
why.
Years ago it was a day of breezy
March when the murmur of the spring
was languorous, and mango blossoms
were dropping on the dust.
The rippling water leapt and licked
the brass vessel that stood on the 
landing-step.
I think of that day of breezy March,
I do not know why.
Shadows are deepening and cattle 
returning to their folds.
The light is grey upon the lonely
meadows, and the villagers are waiting
for the ferry at the bank.
I slowly return upon my steps, I
do not know why.
Paper Boats

Day by day I float my paper boats one by one down the running
stream.
    In big black letters I write my name on them and the name of
the village where I live.
    I hope that someone in some strange land will find them and
know who I am.
    I load my little boats with shiuli flower from our garden, and
hope that these blooms of the dawn will be carried safely to land
in the night.
    I launch my paper boats and look up into the sky and see the
little clouds setting thee white bulging sails.
    I know not what playmate of mine in the sky sends them down
the air to race with my boats!
    When night comes I bury my face in my arms and dream that my
paper boats float on and on under the midnight stars.
    The fairies of sleep are sailing in them, and the lading ins
their baskets full of dreams.

The Royal Tombs Of Golconda

I MUSE among these silent fanes 
Whose spacious darkness guards your dust; 
Around me sleep the hoary plains 
That hold your ancient wars in trust. 

I pause, my dreaming spirit hears, 
Across the wind's unquiet tides, 
The glimmering music of your spears, 
The laughter of your royal brides. 

In vain, O Kings, doth time aspire 
To make your names oblivion's sport, 
While yonder hill wears like a tier 
The ruined grandeur of your fort. 

Though centuries falter and decline, 
Your proven strongholds shall remain 
Embodied memories of your line, 
Incarnate legends of your reign. 

O Queens, in vain old Fate decreed 
Your flower-like bodies to the tomb; 
Death is in truth the vital seed 
Of your imperishable bloom 

Each new-born year the bulbuls sing 
Their songs of your renascent loves; 
Your beauty wakens with the spring 
To kindle these pomegranate groves. 

Surprise! Surprise!

I dreamt death came the other night
And heaven's gate swung wide;
With kindly grace an angel came
To usher me inside.

Yet there to my astonishment
Stood folks I'd known on earth,
Some I had judged as quite unfit
Or of but little worth.

Indignant words rose to my lips
But never were set free;
For every face showed stunned surprise
NO ONE expected me! 

This morning’s surprise

This morning’s surprise is how much I’ll miss rail travel.
The green fields looming up and falling behind,
the milky tea wobbling in a plastic cup,
the engine’s steady vibration.

This afternoon’s surprise is how many shades of red there are,
each one sitting in a room of its own, dense in meditation.
Each one a field of conflict, a medium of conciliation.

This evening’s surprise is not that the novel ends
in a desultory return to the working week -
loose ends trimmed and tucked out of sight -
but the ferocity of my recoil
at the author’s glib contrivance.

Midnight’s surprise is Lorca’s moon floating over Hackney
full-faced, round-eyed and speaking Spanish.

Surprise Surprise Surprise

My Honey's a Gem and he pampers me
and promised his love eternally.
Valentine's Day
was coming our way--
What beautiful gift would I see?

The day broke clear that early morn.
I expected a package with bow adorned.
But, Woe is me!
No gift did I see!~
I was feeling so sad and forlorn!

My Honey had a Smirk on his face
as he took me into his embrace.
He said, Close your eyes--
There's a big surprise!
I balled up my fist, just in case!

Blindly, I was led to the lawn
while I kept asking, What's going on?
He said, Wait and See--
I'm sure you'll agree--
All your worries will soon, be gone!

Alas, I became so excited
and my inner-fires ignited!
I felt so elated 
and anticipated
that I would be so delighted.

Slowly, I opened my eyes
and much to my surprise--
What did I see
in front of me ??
A Clothesline with all it implies!

Now, the laughter filled the air!
I didn't show signs of despair.
I took control
and embraced the pole--
He'll soon, have Starch in his Underwear!











Surprise Surprise Pretty Surprise

Oh boy, a brand new slate
You're all in for a HUGE surprise, just wait
You thought I had money before?
Now I'll be sweating money from my pores
This is just in time
Seriously I'm on cloud nine!


surprise, surprise surprise

never know whats in store for me for today,
doctors or patients,
ear pain, back pain or stuffed throat?

Surprise, Surprise!!

When you started talking to me again yesterday,
It took me by complete surprise.
I didn't know what to say really, I was in total shock.
I still am even after reading the whole conversation again. 

You seem to have had a change of heart, but I'm not sure why.
I'm glad that you did though, because I missed talking to you.
Maybe you realized that I had no part of it,
That it was all just a misunderstanding.

I still can't believe that you wanted to see me before you left,
After telling me not to talk to you any more.
Then to see the words You can call me some if you want.,
Has just really blew my mind!

I'm still not sure what to think of it all,
I guess you can say that I am kind of confused.
All of a sudden here you are saying you want to chill with me,
After telling me that you had changed your mind about anything else.

You acted just as interested as you did before,
So I can't help but ask, What's up?
Ha



Someone leaping from the rocks
Past me ran with windblown
locks Like a startled bright surmise
Visible to mortal eyes, 
Just a cheek of frightened rose
That with sudden beauty glows,
Just a footstep like the wind
And a hurried glance behind,
And then nothing,  as a thought
Escapes the mind ere it is caught.
Someone of the heavenly rout
From behind the veil ran out.
The Blue Bird


I am the bird of God in His blue;
Divinely high and clear
I sing the notes of the sweet and the true
For the god's and the seraph's ear.

I rise like a fire from the mortal's earth
Into a griefless sky
And drop in the suffering soil of his birth
Fire-seeds of ecstasy.

My pinions soar beyond Time and Space
Into unfading Light;
I bring the bliss of the Eternal's face
And the boon of the Spirit's sight.

I measure the worlds with my ruby eyes;
I have perched on Wisdom's tree
Thronged with the blossoms of Paradise
By the streams of Eternity.

Nothing is hid from my burning heart;
My mind is shoreless and still;
My song is rapture's mystic art,
My flight immortal will.
A God's Labour

I have gathered my dreams in a silver air
Between the gold and the blue
And wrapped them softly and left them there,
My jewelled dreams of you.

I had hoped to build a rainbow bridge
Marrying the soil to the sky
And sow in this dancing planet midge
The moods of infinity.

But too bright were our heavens, too far away,
Too frail their ethereal stuff;
Too splendid and sudden our light could not stay;
The roots were not deep enough.

He who would bring the heavens here
Must descend himself into clay
And the burden of earthly nature bear
And tread the dolorous way.

Coercing my godhead I have come down
Here on the sordid earth,
Ignorant, labouring, human grown
Twixt the gates of death and birth.

I have been digging deep and long
Mid a horror of filth and mire
A bed for the golden river’s song,
A home for the deathless fire.

I have laboured and suffered in Matter’s night
To bring the fire to man;
But the hate of hell and human spite
Are my meed since the world began.

The Dreamboat

Who was it that came to me in a boat made of dream-fire,
With his flame brow and his sun-gold body?
Melted was the silence into a sweet secret murmur,
Do you come now? Is the heart's fire ready?

Hidden in the recesses of the heart something shuddered,
It recalled all that the life's joy cherished,
Imaged the felicity it must leave lost forever,
And the boat passed and the gold god vanished.

Now within the hollowness of the world's breast inhabits - 
For the love died and the old joy ended - 
Void of a felicity that has fled, gone for ever,
And the gold god and the dream boat come not.
I Have A Hundred Lives

I have a hundred lives before me yet
To grasp thee in, O Spirit ethereal,
Be sure I will with heart insatiate
Pursue thee like a hunter through them all.

Thou yet shalt turn back on the eternal way
And with awakened vision watch me come
Smiling a little at errors past and lay 
Thy eager hand in mine, its proper home.

Meanwhile made happy by thy happiness
I shall approach thee in things and people dear, 
And in thy spirit's motions half-possess,
Loving what thou hast loved, shall feel thee near,

Until I lay my hands on thee indeed
Somewhere among the stars, as 'twas decreed.
The Unseen Infinite

Arisen to voiceless unattainable peaks
I meet no end, for all is boundless He,
An absolute Joy the wide-winged spirit seeks,
A Might, a Presence, an Eternity.

In the inconscient dreadful dumb Abyss
Are heard the heart-beats of the Infinite.
The insensible midnight veils His trance of bliss,
A fathomless sealed astonishment of Light.

In His ray that dazzles our vision everywhere,
Our half-closed eyes seek fragments of the One:
Only the eyes of Immortality dare
To look unblinded on that living Sun.

Yet are our souls the Immortal's selves within,
Comrades and powers and children of the Unseen.
Life

Mystic Miracle, daughter of Delight, 
Life, thou ecstasy,
Let the radius of thy flight
Be eternity.

On thy wings thou bearest high
Glory and disdain,
Godhead and mortality,
Ecstasy and pain.

Take me in thy wild embrace 
Without weak reserve
Body dire and unveiled face;
Faint not, Life, nor swerve.

All thy bliss I would explore,
All thy tyranny.
Cruel like the lion's roar,
Sweet like springtide be.

Like a Titan I would take,
Like a God enjoy,
Like a man contend and make,
Revel like a boy.

More I will not ask of thee,
Nor my fate would choose;
King or conquered let me be,
Live or lose.

Even in rags I am a god;
Fallen, I am divine;
High I triumph when down-trod,
Long I live when slain.
To Weep Because

To weep because a glorious sun has set
Which the next morn shall gild the east again;
To mourn that mighty strengths must yield to fate
Which by that force a double strength attain;
To shrink from pain without whose friendly strife
Joy could not be, to make a terror of death
Who smiling beckons us to farther life,
And is a bridge for the persistent breath;
Despair and anguish and the tragic grief 
Of dry set eyes, or such disastrous tears
As rend the heart, though meant for its relief, 
And all man's ghastly company of fears
Are born of folly that believes the span
Of life the limit of immortal man.
Words

All round me are words, and words and words,
They grow on me like leaves, they never
Seem to stop their slow growing
From within... But I tell my self, words
Are a nuisance, beware of them, they
Can be so many things, a
Chasm where running feet must pause, to
Look, a sea with paralyzing waves,
A blast of burning air or,
A knife most willing to cut your best
Friend's throat... Words are a nuisance, but.
They grow on me like leaves ona tree,
They never seem to stop their coming,
From a silence, somewhere deep within... 

A Losing Battle

How can my love hold him when the other
Flaunts a gaudy lust and is lioness
To his beast? Men are worthless, to trap them
Use the cheapest bait of all, but never
Love, which in a woman must mean tears
And a silence in the blood. 


Forest Fire

Of late I have begun to feel a hunger
To take in with greed, like a forest fire that
Consumes and with each killing gains a wilder,
Brighter charm, all that comes my way. Bald child in
Open pram, you think I only look, and you
Too, slim lovers behind the tree and you, old
Man with paper in your hand and sunlight in
Your hair... My eyes lick at you like flames, my nerves
Consume ; and, when I finish with you, in the
Pram, near the tree and, on the park bench, I spit
Out small heaps of ash, nothing else. But in me
The sights and smells and sounds shall thrive and go on
And on and on. In me shall sleep the baby
That sat in prams and sleep and wake and smile its
Toothless smile. In me shall walk the lovers hand
In hand and in me, where else, the old shall sit
And feel the touch of sun. In me, the street-lamps
Shall glimmer, the cabaret girls cavort, the
Wedding drums resound, the eunuchs swirl coloured
Skirts and sing sad songs of love, the wounded moan,
And in me the dying mother with hopeful
Eyes shall gaze around, seeking her child, now grown
And gone away to other towns, other arms. 

My Grandmother's House

There is a house now far away where once
I received love……. That woman died,
The house withdrew into silence, snakes moved
Among books, I was then too young
To read, and my blood turned cold like the moon
How often I think of going
There, to peer through blind eyes of windows or
Just listen to the frozen air,
Or in wild despair, pick an armful of
Darkness to bring it here to lie
Behind my bedroom door like a brooding
Dog…you cannot believe, darling,
Can you, that I lived in such a house and
Was proud, and loved…. I who have lost
My way and beg now at strangers' doors to
Receive love, at least in small change? 


Punishment in Kindergarten

Today the world is a little more my own.
No need to remember the pain
A blue-frocked woman caused, throwing
Words at me like pots and pans, to drain
That honey-coloured day of peace.
‘Why don't you join the others, what
A peculiar child you are! '

On the lawn, in clusters, sat my
schoolmates sipping
Sugarcane, they turned and laughed; 
Children are funny things, they laugh
In mirth at others' tears, I buried
My face in the sun-warmed hedge
And smelt the flowers and the pain.

The words are muffled now, the laughing
Faces only a blur. The years have
Sped along, stopping briefly
At beloved halts and moving
Sadly on. My mind has found
An adult peace. No need to remember
That picnic day when I lay hidden
By a hedge, watching the steel-white sun
Standing lonely in the sky. 


Relationship

This love older than I by myriad
Saddened centuries was once a prayer
In his bones that


The Silver Call


There is a godhead of unrealised things
To which Time's splendid gains are hoarded dross;
A cry seems near, a rustle of silver wings
Calling to heavenly joy by earthly loss.


All eye has seen and all the ear has heard
Is a pale illusion by some greater voice
And mightier vision; no sweet sound or word,
No passion of hues that make the heart rejoice


Can equal these diviner ecstasies.
A Mind beyond our mind has sole the ken
Of those yet unimagined harmonies,
The fate and privilege of unborn men.


As rain-thrashed mire the marvel of the rose,
Earth waits that distant marvel to disclose.
Krishna

           At last I find a meaning of soul's birth
           Into this universe terrible and sweet,
     I who have felt the hungry heart of earth
         Aspiring beyond heaven to Krishna's feet.


     I have seen the beauty of immortal eyes,
        And heard the passion of the Lover's flute,

     And known a deathless ecstasy's surprise
       And sorrow in my heart for ever mute.


    Nearer apd nearer now the music draws,
         Life shudders with a strange felicity;
    All Nature is a wide enamoured pause
        Hoping her lord to touch, to clasp, to be.


    For this one moment lived the ages past;
   The world now throbs fulfilled in me at last
The Inner Fields


There is a brighter ether than this blue
Pretence of an enveloping heavenly vault,
Royaler investiture than this massed assault
Of emerald rapture pearled with tears of dew.
Immortal spaces of cerulean hue
Are in our reach and fields without this fault
Of drab brown earth and streams that never halt
In their deep murmur which white flowers strew

Floating like stars upon a strip of sky.
This world behind is made of truer stuff
Than the manufactured tissue of earth's grace.
There we can walk and see the gods go by
And sip from Hebe's cup nectar enough
To make for us heavenly limbs and deathless face.
Liberation

I have thrown from me the whirling dance of mind
And stand now in the spirit's silence free,
Timeless and deathless beyond creature-kind,
The centre of my own eternity.

I have escaped and the small self is dead;
I am immortal, alone, ineffable;
I have gone out from the universe I made,
And have grown nameless and immeasurable.

My mind is hushed in a wide and endless light,
My heart a solitude of delight and peace,
My sense unsnared by touch and sound and sight,
My body a point in white infinities.

I am the one Being's sole immobile Bliss:
No one I am, I who am all that is.
At dusk, at dawn I gaze upon your beauty

by Darshan Singh

English version by Barry Lerner and Harbans Singh Bedi
Original Language Urdu

At dusk, at dawn I gaze upon your beauty --
A dazzling spectacle of rising moon and sun.

So far, the wayfarers have not discovered your footprints:
They stand staring at the stepstone of your door

Your glance of abundant grace did not satisfy;
We with the seeing eye know a glance from a glance.

Saqi, they've just arrived and taken their seats;
How is it that they've already gained intimacy?

Some you inspire with the madness of prostration:
They cannot tell their heads from your door.

Saqi, whoever comes by even a tinge of awakening
We see sitting in your assembly, oblivious to this world.

Men who are maddened by the thought of the goal
See not fellow travelers -- they are intent on the road.

Master, in what strange state your Darshan lives:
We always see his eyes moist with tears.
I Am All

by Jiddu Krishnamurti




I am the blue firmament and the black cloud,
I am the waterfall and the sound thereof,
I am the graven image and the stone by the wayside,
I am the rose and the falling petals thereof,
I am the flower of the field and the sacred lotus,
I am the sanctified waters and the still pool,
I am the tree that towereth among the mountains
And the blade of grass in the peaceful lane,
I am the tender spring leaf and the evergreen foliage.

I am the barbarian and the sage,
I am the impious and the pious,
I am the ungodly and the godly,
I am the harlot and the virgin,
I am the liberated and the man of time,
I am the the indestructible and the destructible,
I am the renunciation and the proud possessor.
I am all
few know me.

I am neither This nor That,
I am neither detached nor attached,
I am neither heaven nor hell -- few know me --
I am neither philosophies nor creeds,
I am neither the Guru nor the disciple.
O friend,
I contain all.

I am clear as the mountain stream,
Simple as the new spring leaf.

Happy are they
That meet with me.

I walked on a path through the jungle

by Jiddu Krishnamurti




I walked on a path through the jungle
Which an elephant had made,
And about me lay a tangle of wilderness.
The voice of desolation fills the distant plain.
And the city is noisy with the bells of a tall temple.
Beyond the jungle are the great mountains,
Calm and clear.

In the fear of Life
The temptation of sorrow is created.

Cut down the jungle -- not one mere tree,
For Truth is attained
By putting aside all that you have sown.

And now I walk with the elephant.
I have been a wanderer long from The Search

by Jiddu Krishnamurti




I have been a wanderer long
In this world of transient things.
I have known the passing pleasures thereof.
As the rainbow is beautiful
But soon vanishes into nothingness,
So have I known,
From the very foundation of the world,
The passing away of all things
Beautiful, joyous and pleasurable.

As the moon is full and serene,
In the day of harvest
So am I
In the day of my Liberation
Simple as the tender leaf am I
For in me are many winters and many springs.
As the dew drop is of the sea,
So am I born
In the ocean of my Liberation

As the mysterious river
Enters the open seas,
So have I entered
Into the world of Liberation
This is the end I have known.
Annette

Annette,
At the dresser.
Pale fingers over mirror-fields
Reaping
That wheat brown hair.
Beauty
Falling as chaff in old mirrors,
While calenders
In all
The cities turn….

The moon is encircled by moons

by Lalan

English version by Deben Bhattacharya
Original Language Bengali

The moon is encircled by moons.
How can I hold it
In my hands?
The unseizable moon,
Glowing in the brilliance
Of a million moons,
Rocks my head
In a lunar carnival....

Moon fruits adorn
The tree of the moon,
Flashing,
Luminously flashing.

I try to see
But my eyes cannot bear;
The rays of beauty
Dazzle them.

Songs of summer


I am happy, life is good.

 Heard at the end of a therapy class. . .
 The heavy-duty brainwashing and you
 Remember your crores stacked away. . .
 Your Harvard airs helps in large doses
 Soon, the colors peel away and there is nothing
 To do than wrestle with your yearnings.

I would like to make love.

 Wanna fuck? It is easier saying it this way
 For something that you paid for in cash
 And cheques and credit cards.
 Forget the lesser action, the lack of poetry
 What mattered was how you let go
 Of your hate and heat and hunger
 But never had the courage to talk
 To her of love or loneliness. . .

You are trespassing on my territory

 You guarded it with LoCs and walls
 And barbed wire fences where hatred
 Danced like high-voltage electricity. . .
 You killed creatures and cleared forests
 And wiped away the darker people
 And those of dreamy tongues with
 Your agenda of a war-a-week, the
 Worlds-to-win and vengeance-to-wreak. . .
 Your Mushroom clouds and wmds and
 Poverty drafts and armchair chivalry and
 A collective manhood of nuclear warheads
 That explode and penetrate. . .

She’s mine.

 To make her yours and yours alone,
 You pushed her deeper into harems
 Where she could see the sunlight
 Only from the lattice windows.
 Domesticated into drudgery she was just
 Another territory, worn out by wars. A slave
 Who maintained your numbers.

Let’s make love.

 ~all that you thought~
 What’s taking her so long to undress?
 Quick! Sooner!
 ~all that you said~
 I m gonna fuck till ya faint. . .

Oh how nice to have made love.

 ~breathless~ Iminahurry. Cyasoon.~panting~

Here are the words, again
I am happy. Life is good / I would love to make love.
You are trespassing on my territory/ She’s mine.
Let’s make love/ Oh how nice to have made love.

On sunny green fields these are the only
Six sentences the male of a grasshopper can ever say.

But what have we done with words?



Meeting the prophetess

Leave your books behind.

Since memory,
Like knowledge, is a traitor,
Erase every hoarding of your horrible past.

At last, when you enter her world
Of fraying edges and falling angels
Don’t barter words where touch will do and be the truth.
For once allow her silence to sear, strip your life-layers
Because she who knows the truth will not know the tale.



The flight of birds

a poem should be wordless
as the flight of birds.
Archibald Macleish, Ars Poetica.

birds don’t sing in their flight

for them flying is a muse
they compose mid-air
weave agnostic verse
sneering haughtily at our absurdity
as they float over our meaningless mosques and churches
and those patrolled international borders
and other disputed sites
where the guns go bang bang bang all the time
they swing over there losing their birdegos
ego is difficult to retain in mid-flight
wondering about and watching men plucking out
and quashing the lives of other men and women and
poor helpless children and they
shed a birdtear or two from there
a birdtear that is lost midway due to heat of some explosion
down below some crazy fanatical bomb detonating
killing instantly the people and the city and the forests
and even the pitiable babybirds who are yet to learn to fly

they contemplate of writing poems
about a bird’s egg charring
before even being boiled and scratch their beaks
unsure if this is a metaphor or simile or other poetic device

o the birds have lots and lots and lots to write about
o their writings will never be banned

they borrow freedom
to write poems in the sky
they come back and
pass it on to us
we take the song only
brutally
but at least we take the song

to take the poem
to unscramble the words from the song and to put it back again
as song so spontaneously that it remains the poem and the song
to remember forever this refrain whose melody haunts us
and to hum that refrain which preserves our sanity
perhaps we need to fly
a trifle aimlessly like birds

or because we are humans
six-sensed creatures with massive egos
and massive superegos and massive egos on the ego
and because of possessing gray matter
what doctors call medulla oblongata
we need to feel with our red hearts
than think with some unlocatable mind

we need to look deeper. . .
into ourselves, into eyes
we need to lose ourselves
then, and only then

the poems will come
silent
wordless
as the flight of birds



Blackboard poems

S          P          A          C          E
is a problem unlike your never-ending
paper or the maddening blankness of
your word processor where you can go on
and on in anguish or insanity or boredom
on one-hundred-and-seven degree Fahrenheit afternoons.
To write the next lines you need to take
the greengoldbrown duster to rub off these eight

Colour is another confusion you want
to wish away. At sixteen you wouldn’t write
OneSingleWord unless it was forty percent
gray letters on a plum background and your
monitor looked like a high class youknowwho.
The font then was Footlight MT Light, 13 pt.
Now, at twenty one, it is Verdana, eight point.
I have erased again

NOTHING SEDUCES LIKE YOUR OWN HANDWRITING.
THE WHITE CHALK DANCING ACROSS GLASS GREEN.
Creepers on W’s  R’s, hats on S, hearts on I’s  J’s.

I have erased again

I don’t grudge the colours too. Instead of two hundred
and fifty six fantasies there is the catholic bridal white.
Sometimes, there is yellow, blue, green, purple, red and
orange and the opportunity of giving them names

Flaky Fullmoon. Bleached  Faded Captain Haddock Suit.
Temple-tank Algae. Crushed Lilac Under Flashlight.
Sherbet Stain. Sawdust Chillidust Cream.

I have erased again

There is considerable exertion let me hazard a guess:
writing takes two hundred calories per hour, erasing
with the duster five hundred, and walking across must
be say, around eighty. Then, there is chalk-dust allergy
that compels me to sneeze. And the chemical after-effect
that spoils the moody brown skin of any glowing goddess.

And the unbearable sounds
of chalk squeak. . .
I have erased again.
The fifth time now.

But, a poet loves
writing blackboard poems.
So easy, to imagine, an audience
Yet, how much she dreads
Impermanence. . .



Returning home

And you see the two-crows-for-joy-pass that are sitting on
overhead cables and the evening moon,
a mere silvery slice against fluffy translucent sky.

And the remains of your school where you spent your twelve
longest years and lived through everything.

And the bus-stand you had to draw for your art-class in yellow
ochre or asphalt grey and the emptiness that now occupies the
place where a tiny café once stood.

And the tree where they fed you lunch before you learnt to walk
back home. And I thought of my parents.

Brilliant people talking of the intricacies of their life and the corruption of
morals and the bygone days and hunger in their childhood and their deaddear-
departed parents as if to teach you what to talk to your children.

And you are their child,
so you speak their lines.
Still returning home,

And there are rusty mammoth girders that outline the sky like
the derelicts of lost dreams and crossed hopes.

And girls so flimsy pretty yet unsafe in the little worlds of lip
gloss and love affairs that you could have smoked them into
oblivion.

And the dry decaying dead leaves crushed with varying noises
and carrying a spent smell that clings to your hair.

And the shy forest noises that violate your fixation over sight
and sound and smell and touch yes touch.

And I thought of my lover.

A primitive man who would invade
your aloneness on insomniac nights
and chal



How they prostitute a poem

It is uniquely easy
For some to sell
Ideals because
Business of absent
Goods is essentially
A sacrosanct but mostly
A flimsy transaction.

Some learn, early on,
To prostitute their verse.
So, in all the waking hours
They scavenge for a simple simile
That matches requirements, fulfills needs.

They barter reality
And every romance
To a blurred triplicate
Carbon-copy World of Hard
Cash and Price Tags and Brand Names.

In this brothel
Of stilled hope and
Stagnated stories, poems
Are born virgin and endowed
With voluptuous figures of firm,
Full breasts and wide hips where men
Prefer to plant their pastime dreams,
Or conceive their seed,
Or merely spite themselves,
Or dabble at domination.

But, the poem, with this
Bogus existence becomes
An adept, untiring prostitute.

Taken
On a starry night,
The poem opens
dry and drab and dreary:
lacking love and life like
The paid-for parting
Of the thighs.

Aggression

Ours is a silence
that waits. Endlessly waits.

And then, unable to bear it
any further, it breaks into wails.

But not all suppressed reactions
end in our bemoaning the tragedy.

Sometimes,
the outward signals
of inward struggles takes colossal forms
And the revolution happens because our dreams explode.

Most of the time:

Aggression is the best kind of trouble-shooting.






Authorship
You say that father write a lot of books, but what he write I don't
understand.
He was reading to you all the evening, but could you really
make out what he meant?
What nice stores, mother, you can tell us! Why can't father
write like that, I wonder?
Did he never hear from his own mother stories of giants and
fairies and princesses?
Has he forgotten them all?
Often when he gets late for his bath you have to and call him
an hundred times.
You wait and keep his dishes warm for him, but he goes on
writing and forgets.
Father always plays at making books.
If ever I go to play in father's room, you come and call me,
What a naughty child!
If I make the slightest noise you say, Don't you see that
father's at his work?
What's the fun of always writing and writing?
When I take up father's pen or pencil and write upon his book
just as he does,-a,b,c,d,e,f,g,h,i,-why do you get cross with me
then, mother?
You never say a word when father writes.
When my father wastes such heaps of paper, mother, you don't
seem to mind at all.
But if I take only one sheet to take a boat with, you say,
Child, how troublesome you are!
What do you think of father's spoiling sheets and sheets of
paper with black marks all over both sides?
 Fireflies
My fancies are fireflies,  
Specks of living light
twinkling in the dark.

he voice of wayside pansies,
that do not attract the careless glance,
murmurs in these desultory lines.

In the drowsy dark caves of the mind
dreams build their nest with fragments
dropped from day's caravan.

Spring scatters the petals of flowers
that are not for the fruits of the future,
but for the moment's whim.

Joy freed from the bond of earth's slumber
rushes into numberless leaves,
and dances in the air for a day.

My words that are slight
my lightly dance upon time's waves
when my works havy with import have gone down.

Mind's underground moths
grow filmy wings
and take a farewell flight
in the sunset sky.

The butterfly counts not months but moments,
and has time enough.

My thoughts, like spark, ride on winged surprises,
carrying a single laughter.
The tree gazes in love at its own beautiful shadow
which yet it never can grasp.

Let my love, like sunlight, surround you
and yet give you illumined freedom.

Days are coloured vbubbles
that float upon the surface of fathomless night.

My offerings are too timid to claim your remembrance,
and therefore you may remember them.

Leave out my name from the gift
if it be a burden,
but keep my song.

April, like a child,
writes hieroglyphs on dust with flowers,
wipes them away and forgets.

Memory, the priestess,
kills the present
and offers its heart to the shrine of the dead past.

From the solemn gloom of the temple
children run out to sit in the dust,
God watches them play
and forgets the priest.

My mind starts up at some flash
on the flow of its thoughts
like a brook at a sudden liquid note of its own
that is never repeated.

In the mountain, stillness surges up
to explore its own height;
in the lake, movement stands still
to contemplate its own depth.

The departing night's one kiss
on the closed eyes of morning
glows in the star of dawn.

Maiden, thy beauty is like a fruit
which is yet to mature,
tense with an unyielding secret.

Sorrow that has lost its memory
is like the dumb dark hours
that have no bird songs
but only the cricket's chirp.

Bigotry tries to keep turth safe in its hand
with a grip that kills it.
Wishing to hearten a timid lamp
great night lights all her stars.

Though he holds in his arms the earth-bride,
the sky is ever immensely away.

God seeks comrades and claims love,
the Devil seeks slaves and claims obedience.

The soil in return for her service
keeps the tree tied to her,
the sky asks nothing and leaves it free.

Jewel-like immortal
does not boast of its length of years
but of the scintillating point of its moment.

The child ever dwells in the mystery of ageless time,
unobscured by the dust of history.

Alight laughter in the steps of creation
carries it swiftly across time.

One who was distant came near to me in the morning,
and still nearer when taken away by night.

White and pink oleanders meet
and make merry in different dialects.

When peace is active swepping its dirt, it is storm.

The lake lies low by the hill,
a tearful entreaty of love
at the foot of the inflexible.

There smiles the Divine Child
among his playthings of unmeaning clouds
and ephemeral lights and shadows.

The breeze whispers to the lotus,
What is thy secret?
It is myself, says the lotus,
Steal it and I disappear!

The freedom of the storm and the bondage of the stem
join hands in the dance of swaying branches.

The jasmine's lisping of love to the sun is her flowers.

The tyrant claims freedom to kill freedom
and yet to keep it for himself.

Gods, tired of their paradise, envy man.

Clouds are hills in vapour,
hills are clouds in stone, 
a phantasy in time's dream.

While God waits for His temple to be built of love,
men bring stones.

I touch God in my song
as the hill touches the far-away sea
with its waterfall.

Light finds her treasure of colours
through the antagonism of clouds.

My heart to-day smiles at its past night of tears
like a wet tree glistening in the sun 
after the rain is over.

I have thanked the trees that have made my life fruitflul,
but have failed to remember the grass
that has ever kept it green.

The one without second is emptiness,
the other one makes it true.

Life's errors cry for the merciful beauty
that can modulate their isolation
into a harmony with the whole.

They expect thanks for the banished nest
because their cage is shapely and secure.

In love I pay my endless debt to thee
for what thou art.

The pond sends up its lyrics from its dark in lilies,
and the sun says, they are good.

Your calumny against the great is impious,
it hurts yourself;
against the small it is mean,
for it hurts the victim.

The first flower that blossomed on this earth
was an invitation to the unborn song.

Dawnthe many-coloured flowerfades,
and then the simple light-fruit,
the sun appears.

The muscle that has a doubt if its wisdom
throttles the voice that would cry.

The wind tries to take the flame by storm 
only to blow it out.

Life's play is swift,
Life's playthings fall behind one by one
and are forgotten.

My flower, seek not thy paradise
in a fool's buttonhole.

Thou hast risen late, my crescent moon,
but my night bird is still awake to greet thee.

Darkness is the veiled bride
silently waiting for the errant light
to return to her bosom.

Trees are the earth's endless effort to
speak to the listening heaven.

The burden of self is lightened
when I laugh at myself.

The weak can be terrible 
because they try furiously to appear strong.

The wind of heaven blows,
The anchor desperately clutches the mud,
and my boat is beating its breast against the chain.

The spirit of death is one,
the spirit of life is many,
Whe God is dead religion becomes one.

The blue of the sky longs for the earth's green,
the wind between them sighs, Alas.
Day's pain muffled by its own glare,
burns among stars in the night.

The stars crowd round the virgin night
in silent awe at her loneliness
that can never be touched.

The cloud gives all its gold
to the departing sun
and greets the rising moon
with only a pale smile.

He who does good comes to the temple gate,
he who loves reaches the shrine.

Flower, have pity for the worm,
it is not a bee,
its love is a blunder and a burden.

With the ruins of terror's triumph
children build their doll's house.

The lamp waits through the long day of neglect
for the flame's kiss in the night.

Feathers in the dust lying lazily content
have forgotten their sky.

The flowers which is single
need not envy the thorns
that are numerous.

The world suffers most from the disinterested tyranny
of its well-wisher.

We gain freedom whrn we have paid the full price
for our right to live.

Your careless gifts of a moment,
like the meteors of an aut